arXiv:2601.14311v1 [cs.CR] 19 Jan 2026

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and
Traceability in LLMs
RICHARD HOHENSINNER∗ , Pro2Future GmbH, Austria
BELGIN MUTLU∗ , Pro2Future GmbH, Austria
INTI GABRIEL MENDOZA ESTRADA† , openmaind FlexCo, Austria
MATEJ VUKOVIC∗ , Pro2Future GmbH, Austria
SIMONE KOPEINIK‡ , Know Center Research GmbH, Austria
ROMAN KERN§ , Graz University of Technology, Austria
Large language models (LLMs) are deployed at scale, yet their training data life cycle remains opaque. This survey synthesizes research
from the past ten years on three tightly coupled axes: (1) data provenance, (2) transparency, and (3) traceability, and three supporting
pillars: (4) bias & uncertainty, (5) data privacy, and (6) tools and techniques that operationalize them. A central contribution is a
proposed taxonomy defining the field’s domains and listing corresponding artifacts. Through analysis of 95 publications, this work
identifies key methodologies concerning data generation, watermarking, bias measurement, data curation, data privacy, and the
inherent trade-off between transparency and opacity.
CCS Concepts: • Information systems → Data provenance; • Computing methodologies → Artificial intelligence.
ACM Reference Format:
Richard Hohensinner, Belgin Mutlu, Inti Gabriel Mendoza Estrada, Matej Vukovic, Simone Kopeinik, and Roman Kern. 2025. Tracing
the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs. J. ACM 37, 4, Article 111 (December 2025),
35 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

1

Introduction

Modern Large Language Models (LLMs) are built with large amounts of data. This data stems from various sources,
including crawled textual content of the Web, like the FineWeb dataset [79], containing up to 15 trillion tokens (44
Terabytes) of refined text. However, LLMs are currently incapable to trace back the generated output to the original
data sources. Even worse, major LLM creators keep the data origins and training processes of their flagship GPT models
secret and create opaque black-box models as a result, motivated by economic considerations and proprietary concerns.
These principles force AI researchers to operate under uncertainty regarding data origins and their ensuing implications.
In this work, we investigate the concepts of data provenance, transparency, and traceability linked to the domain
of LLMs. Furthermore, we examine the linkages of three supporting pillars to the data origins of LLMs: bias, privacy,
Authors’ Contact Information: Richard Hohensinner, richard.hohensinner@pro2future.at, Pro2Future GmbH, Graz, Styria, Austria; Belgin Mutlu,
belgin.mutlu@pro2future.at, Pro2Future GmbH, Graz, Styria, Austria; Inti Gabriel Mendoza Estrada, inti.mendoza@openmaind.ai, openmaind FlexCo,
Graz, Styria, Austria; Matej Vukovic, matej.vukovic@pro2future.at, Pro2Future GmbH, Graz, Styria, Austria; Simone Kopeinik, skopeinik@know-center.at,
Know Center Research GmbH, Graz, Styria, Austria; Roman Kern, rkern@tugraz.at, Graz University of Technology, Graz, Styria, Austria.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on
servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Manuscript submitted to ACM

1

2

Hohensinner et al.
Pre-Training

Alignment /
RLHF

Fine-Tuning
Transparency

Model
Parameters

Model
Parameters

Model
Parameters

Model
Parameters

Skeleton
Model

Base
Model

Instruction
Model

Resulting
Model

Pre-Training
Data

Fine-Tuning
Training Data

Alignment
Training Data

Traceability

Data Provenance Hookpoints

Fig. 1. Illustration of data provenance (Chapter 3), traceability (Chapter 4), and transparency (Chapter 5) linked to the data flow
in LLMs. The supporting pillars i.e., bias, uncertainty (Chapter 6), and privacy (Chapter 7) are directly linked to the training data
sources, and provenance tools and techniques (Chapter 8) enhance the data cycle at various intersections.

and provenance tools & techniques. Figure 1 provides an overview of these domains based on the life cycle of an LLM.
Current rapid developments in LLMs lead to huge increases in model parameter size. Looking at developments of
recent years, OpenAI’s GPT-1 [80] started with 117 million parameters in 2018, followed by GPT-2 [81] with 1,5 billion
parameters in 2019, and GPT-3 [10] in 2020 with 175 billion parameters. In 2025, flagship models like DeepSeek-R1 [33]
are already at 671 billion parameters, and Moonshot AI’s Kimi K2 [103] further exceeds this with 1 trillion parameters
in total. This skyrocketing growth of model parameters not only demands an increased amount of computing power for
deployment but also requires a corresponding growth of training data to be exploited effectively. Furthermore, with
the rising need for data, data quality has to be maintained accordingly to avoid the use of corrupted data to decrease
the risk of hallucinations caused by low-quality data sources [27, 62]. This raises questions on how this hunger for
data can be satisfied sustainably and how the provenance of training data can aid in mitigating LLM-related issues,
such as hallucinations. To effectively utilize this provenance knowledge, LLMs need to possess a certain degree of
transparency. This transparency allows investigations and sense-making of internal states and decision-making of
these systems. Additionally, transparency measures for LLMs enable tracing data and knowledge flows through LLMs.
Traceability, on the other hand, provides the ability to link underlying source data to generated outputs. However,
tracing information through LLMs is complicated by the intrinsic decoupling of language as words, which exist only as
complex mathematical representations within these systems.
The aforementioned increasing demand for high-quality data far exceeds the scope of manually human-verifiable
sources, and new ways of quality assessment have to be found. Filtering huge amounts of datasets from the web, but
keeping a high threshold of quality, is a difficult task, tedious to do manually, yet treacherous to automate securely. A
strand of research suggests using LLMs and their data generation capabilities themselves to automate data annotation,
curation, and filtering [15, 28, 83]. However, further processing data that originates from a system whose own data
sources are not fully disclosed may introduce a new range of potentially harmful problem sources.
Data provenance regarding LLMs involves tracking the origins of data sources. This includes all data that is ingested
into LLMs, i.e., through training, fine-tuning, or alignment processes, as well as settings and restriction sources. Tracing
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

3

Licensing & Attribution [5] [42] [52] [58] [64] [77] [84] [110]
Data Provenance

Provenance Extraction & Retrieval [32] [100] [106] [115]
Data Generation & Annotation [9] [15] [23] [28] [66] [83] [96] [99]
Logging Practices [22]

Traceability &
Accountability

Open-Weight Traceability [69] [98]
Closed-Weight Traceability [59] [121]
Open-Weight Models [13] [16] [21] [25] [31] [46] [71] [85] [90] [97] [114] [120] [126] [127] [130]

Data Origins
of LLMs

Transparency

Closed-Weight Models [35] [56] [67] [104] [111] [122]

Interpretability
Explainability

Model Passive Characteristics [6] [11] [12] [18] [31] [37] [48] [50] [53] [61] [63] [78]
[87] [88] [93] [113] [117] [119] [125] [128] [129] [131]
Model Agnostic [4] [7] [60] [105] [107]
Model Specific [91] [118] [124]
Bias [14] [24] [38] [44] [45] [89] [101]

Supporting
Pillars

Privacy [47, 49]
Provenance Tools & Techniques [20] [43] [58] [64] [82] [86] [92] [116] [123] [133]

Fig. 2. Taxonomy of our systematic literature review, outlining the three main axes - Data Provenance, Transparency, and Traceability
- together with their supporting pillars. Bias & Uncertainty, Data Privacy, and Provenance Tools & Techniques provide additional
context for characterizing data origins of LLMs.

data through a language model is considered difficult because the data involved is no longer directly accessible within
the model after training. Language models do not store data in their conventional state - they store the respective
knowledge and links from data in their parameters, also referenced as weights, in a mathematical representation, which
impedes tracing information conventionally [70].
The overarching goal of traceability research in this domain is to establish an end-to-end traceable data flow pipeline,
from the user query and the system’s response to the knowledge origins in the initial training data. Recent work aims to
analyze the biology of LLMs by investigating their inner circuits in an interpretive study [54] to further understand the
model’s decision-making process. A deeper understanding of these circuits could lead to more profound insights into
the connections between the initial training data and the inner mechanisms of a language model. Thus, investigations
in our work aim to tackle the traceability of training data and their origins for LLMs.
Further, the issue of using LLM-generated content as a training basis for new models is a timely, pressing topic.
More and more models are currently being trained on data generated by generative AI. We want to emphasize that this
procedure contains many risks, such as biases propagating across language models, proprietary data that was ingested
unintentionally by a donor (or teacher) model being forwarded to a receiver model, and the uncertainty of unknown
data sources growing to a second layer.
Throughout the training process, the intrinsic knowledge of the training data is transferred into the model’s
parameters. However, the model parameters do not link back to the training data by default. This creates a transparency
gap, if only the resulting language model, but not its training sources, is accessible to users and experts. Furthermore,
opening questions of where particular knowledge from the source data is stored within the model parameters, and
whether it is possible to detect particular parameter regions that can be traced back to originating data sources. These
questions can only be investigated under the conditions that model parameters and their respective sources are fully
disclosed.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

4

Hohensinner et al.
LLMs with transparent architecture and accessible weights are referred to as open-weight models. In contrast,

language models that do not provide access to their internal states are differentiated as closed-weight models. With this
gap spreading from fully open to entirely opaque, naturally, there are LLMs with transparency measures in between,
disclosing only parts of their internal states. Additionally, the grade of access also decides the ability to run these
language models on local infrastructure. The ability to host a language model on-premises opens opportunities for
in-depth research on model parameters in regard to interpretability and explainability. With interpretability being a
passive property of a model that defines to what extent the internals of LLMs can be directly understood by humans,
and explainability determining active processes which produce human-understandable reasons and decision-making of
LLMs. We found that data provenance, traceability, and transparency go hand in hand in the domain of LLMs, as it is
impossible to trace data flows through non-transparent, opaque systems, and similarly impossible to match data origins
to final results without the means of traceability.
Furthermore, LLMs are prone to taking on bias from data sources [101], because the sheer amount of data involved
in the training of current language models, as well as the lack of knowledge and context, make it difficult to mitigate. In
systems that interact with humans, bias can never be fully eliminated, only mitigated to a certain degree. This mitigation
usually relates to the application context, and the general-purpose nature of LLMs renders this task particularly hard
to counteract. Research on data provenance for LLMs could help reduce unwanted bias in models by attributing
detected bias to specific parts of the training data. Succeeding training runs could then be trained with bias-annotated
datasets in future iterations to improve over time. Provenance information also enables differentiating between bias
inherited from data sources and the intrinsic bias of the language model architecture or training procedure. Additionally,
provenance-driven data investigations for LLMs can help to tackle cases of misinformation or other harmful content,
by following the data trail back to the flawed data sources.
LLMs are currently considered to be in a gray zone of privacy legislation. However, LLM creators are increasingly
under pressure due to data privacy and protection laws such as the European AI-Act or the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR). Alongside this, one particular data protection right, the "Right to be forgotten", becomes increasingly
important for the domain of LLMs, especially due to their final states and lack of post-hoc editing. Although research
already investigates methods to edit individual model parameters, e.g., deleting certain information [39], there is no
general solution yet to erase one’s erroneously digested data from a trained language model. We found that current
research, although of utmost importance, seldom mentions the topic of data privacy concerning LLM data usage.
Finally, current research already provides, to some extent, aid to tackle the opaque data flow into LLMs. We investigate
works for their applicability to the domains of data provenance, traceability, and transparency, and report provenance
tools and techniques that may help the cause and inspire future research.
1.1

Related Surveys

One can observe an increased interest in topics related to data provenance and related concepts, highlighted by a surge
of articles and surveys in the past year. A chronologically sorted overview of related surveys is given in Table 1. Older
works [36, 95] focused on data collection and generation, while newer works [1, 40, 74, 94] are shifting towards the
relationship between the data and data processing. The most recent trend here is a focus on LLMs [30, 75, 132].
Simmhan et al. [95] present an overview of techniques for data provenance, stating that provenance (in 2005) is still
in an exploratory field with several open questions. Herschel et al. [36] investigate where provenance information stems
from, in what states it exists, and what this information can be used for. Additional surveys explore data provenance
in domains such as the Internet of Things (IoT) [40], e-Science [94], healthcare [1], and security & privacy [74]. In
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

5

Table 1. Overview of related surveys, highlighting the shift in interest from data collection to data processing and finally LLMs.
Survey

Year

Focus

LLM

Data Prov.

Trace.

Trans.

Interp.

Expl.

Bias

Priv.

Pr. Tools

Pr. Techn.

[95]
[36]
[40]
[94]
[1]
[74]
[30]
[132]
[75]
Ours

2005
2017
2019
2020
2023
2023
2025
2025
2025
2025

Data Prov. Techniques
Data Provenance
Data Prov. in IoT
Data Prov. in e-Science
Data Prov. in Healthcare
Data Prov. in Sec. & Priv.
Col. & Mgmt. of Data Prov.
LLM & Data Mgmt.
LLM Sourcing
Data Prov., Trace. & Trans.

×
×
×
×
×
×
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

×
✓
✓
×
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

×
×
×
×
×
×
✓
✓
✓
✓

×
×
×
×
×
×
✓
×
✓
✓

×
×
×
×
×
×
✓
×
×
✓

×
×
×
×
×
×
✓
✓
✓
✓

×
✓
✓
×
✓
✓
×
✓
✓
✓

×
×
×
×
×
×
×
✓
×
✓

×
×
×
✓
×
×
×
✓
✓
✓

Scopus Search
Timeframe: 2016 - 2025

Data

Language Model

data provenance

Attributes

llm

data lineage

AND

data management

transparency

language model

OR

AND

large language model

watermarking

data governance
data pedigree

traceability

source attribution

OR

tracking

data set

auditability

dataset

OR

granularity

meta data

reproduceability

metadata

interpretability
trustworthiness

129

responsibility

Search Results

Manual
Review

Yes

95 Articles

No

34 Articles

Relevant?

Fig. 3. Illustration of the Scopus search, query construction, and manual reviewing process. The timeframe 2016 - 2025 spans over our
three filters: Data, Language Model, and Attributes, leading to 129 search results.

2025, Gregory et al.[30] investigate how LLMs can be used for the collection and management of data provenance
information, Zhou et al. [132] analyze the interconnections of LLMs and the overarching domain of data management,
and Pang et al. [75] present an overview of the different perspectives from which LLMs source their information.
Our survey follows this trajectory and increases the scope by investigating the capabilities of different types of
LLMs, the means of transparency with a separate view on interpretability & explainability, and in addition covering
provenance tools & techniques for LLMs.
1.2

Contribution

This survey provides an analysis of the data origins of LLMs, setting a particular focus on data provenance, traceability,
and transparency. This includes traceability approaches such as watermarking and transparency investigations regarding
Manuscript submitted to ACM

6

Hohensinner et al.

(a) Distribution of articles to the main pillars: data provenance, transparency and traceability, and supporting pillars:
bias & uncertainty, privacy and provenance tools & techniques.

(b) Distribution of articles and domains by year. The low
count for 2025 is due to the March cutoff date; interest is
expected to continue growing in line with recent trends.

Fig. 4. Overview of the considered articles and their domains.

the model type, as well as interpretability and explainability of LLMs. Additionally, supporting pillars such as bias, data
privacy, and provenance tools & techniques are analyzed. Although relevant to the domain of data governance, topics
related to data security and data quality are excluded from this survey as we deem they deserve their own standalone
survey. Our main contributions are related to a retrospective analysis, the current state of the art, and a future outlook:
(1) Providing a thorough literature review on LLM research, concentrating on data usage from the past 10 years,
with each article containing at least one of the three criteria: 1) data usage for LLMs, 2) data generation for and
by the usage of LLMs, 3) data provenance in the field of machine learning and AI.
(2) Creating an overview of the current landscape of approaches and their limitations, and establishing a new
research domain by exploring the LLM’s environments for data provenance capabilities.
(3) Identifying current research gaps and proposing future research directions for data provenance, traceability, and
transparency for LLMs and data-driven explainable AI.
(4) Establishing guidelines as highlighted by selected work, and frameworks (Chapter 8) in the context of this survey.
1.3

Survey Methodology

To achieve reproducibility in the considered articles, we opted for a systematic review based on a query and a scientific
database for retrieval, where we utilized Scopus1 . Figure 3 outlines the search process and query keywords. The
considered time span was set to cover the last ten years of research related to LLMs, spreading from January 2016
to March 2025 (date of search). Next, we applied three additional filters during the advanced Scopus search, all of
which needed to be met to make it into the pool of articles. The first filter ensured a focus on data (provenance) and
1 https://www.scopus.com/

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

7

related data-centered topics, such as data lineage, governance, and management, which are terms frequently used in
connection with data provenance. The second filter ensured the usage of Large Language Models (LLMs), written in
variations, so as not to miss any work using just one writing style. And, the third filter incorporated quality attributes
like transparency, traceability, auditability, or reproducibility, which stemmed from our preliminary literature review
on the topic of data origins of LLMs. This search yielded a total of 129 results that matched our criteria. We then
manually processed these 129 search results. The search results also included thirteen complete conference proceedings.
We filtered these proceedings for duplicates and extracted ten additional documents for review. Whereas the initial
conference proceedings documents were excluded. Finally, we further filtered the articles via several criteria, where at
least one of three conditions needed to be met for relevancy: (1) Involvement of data usage in connection with LLMs,
(2) data generation for and from the usage of LLMs, and (3) data provenance in the field of machine learning (ML)
and artificial intelligence (AI). We applied these criteria, resulting in the removal of 34 papers, which were considered
irrelevant. Thus, the final set of articles comprises 95 articles, which we further grouped into sub-domains. Starting
from the central topic of data provenance, we found that traceability and transparency are closely linked to the data
origins of LLMs. Additional investigation revealed that bias, uncertainty, privacy, tools, and techniques are supporting
pillars of the field. The distribution of articles to these domains is visualized in Figure 4. Furthermore, our detailed
grouping of the domains, illustrated in Figure 2, resulted in the following structure of this survey: Chapter 3: Data
Provenance & Attribution, Chapter 4: Traceability & Accountability, Chapter 5: Transparency & Opacity, Chapter 6:
Bias & Uncertainty, Chapter 7: Data Privacy, and Chapter 8: Provenance Tools & Techniques.
2

Preliminaries

Data provenance for LLMs is closely linked to traceability and transparency. Means that support the traceability of
information are key to maintaining data provenance throughout complex LLM pipelines and to mitigating obfuscation
through parameterization. The concept of transparency, on the other hand, lays the foundation for LLM data provenance,
as it enables the observation of LLM pipelines and their data flows. Furthermore, transparency incorporates the disciplines
of explainable and interpretable AI. Also of utmost importance is the scientific discourse on biases that are inherent in
data sources and are propagated into LLMs through those during training. Provenance tools and techniques tackle the
opaque landscape of data that flows through LLMs with the goal of establishing understandable model decision-making
processes. Whereas data privacy concerns protecting one’s identity, personal information, and proprietary data sources.
Investigating data provenance for LLMs can help identify and address existing problems, providing a quintessence for
more transparent and traceable data handling.
2.1

Scope of LLMs and data sources

We consider LLMs at all stages, including foundational (or basic) models, fine-tuned (or instruction) models, and models
that underwent alignment with Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF). The training data of LLMs is
hard to classify in general. The same dataset that was used to pre-train one model could also be used in another model’s
fine-tuning step. Additionally, data sources may change over time through manual editing or complex data manipulation,
and prior iterations may become inaccessible over time. Thus, we differentiate the data flow into language models
as training data (pre-training, fine-tuning, alignment) for parameterization and inference input (user queries). The
former has a direct impact on the language model’s weights, whereas inference input does not change an LLM’s internal
memory. Furthermore, we draw a distinct boundary between the inside and outside of the LLM system. Outside of the
system: (Training) Data sources, user prompts & queries, and outputs as tokens and logprobs (logarithmic probabilities).
Manuscript submitted to ACM

8

Hohensinner et al.

Inside the system: Model weights, also known as parameters, layers, and the architecture. Additional grey zones exist,
such as pre-processing methods of prompts before they are transferred into the LLM, or post-hoc filters applied to
generated outputs, and post-processing of responses for the User Interface. We consider these methods as grey zones,
because they may or may not be implemented in LLM systems and their environment.
2.2

Data Provenance
“Data provenance, a record that describes the origins and processing of data, offers new promises in the
increasingly important role of artificial intelligence (AI)-based systems in guiding human decision making.”
[112]

Data provenance is mainly focused on the origin and source of a data object, dating back to its original creation. Usually,
this provenance information is documented and stored within additional metadata. In more complex environments,
so-called provenance graphs [108] are used to document the processing of data and information flow. Data Lineage, often
mistakenly used as a synonym for data provenance, is focused on the transformation of data over time. A Wikipedia
entry can be used as an example, as it forms a piece of information that is continuously updated by multiple authors
over time. Also, a configuration file stored on a server, accessed by multiple system administrators, can be used as an
example. Furthermore, datasets that change in iterations, either through extension or reduction, are also subject to
data lineage. Similar to the provenance information, data lineage is stored as metadata alongside the data objects, and
changes can be visualized by diagrams over time. We formalize the key difference in both terms as follows:
• Data Provenance: Keeps track of the origin of data sources and their creation.
• Data Lineage: Keeps track of the transformation of data sources over their entire life cycle.
Regarding LLMs, the concept of data provenance can be used to shine light into the obfuscated entanglement that is
created by billions of parameters coexisting in modern language models. This could be achieved by tracing the origin of
a generated token, via the model’s weights, all the way back to its initial training data source evidence.
For this, two approaches exist: (1) Keeping track of original provenance information throughout the parametrization
and generation process and (2) Searching for the provenance sources post-hoc, using the model’s output and the entirety
of involved data sources [55].
The concept of data provenance in the field of LLMs seems straightforward, yet, opens many questions. Throughout
the rapid growth of LLMs in the field of AI in recent years, primary focus was put on metrics like performance, speed
for faster inference, range of tasks through parameter size, adherence to social norms by avoidance of generating bias
and harmful content, and evaluation metrics for domain benchmarks, e.g., coding or solving mathematical problems.
Although quintessential for the widespread success of LLMs, the underlying dependency on high-quality data and its
corresponding provenance appears to be neglected.
2.2.1 Granularity and Linkages. We section data source levels for this work as: (1) Open web (Big Data), (2) datasets,
(3) documents & files, (4) document chunks, (5) sentences, (6) tokens (& embeddings). And, implicit source linkages
as: (1) Crawling & curation (from web to datasets), (2) document chunking, i.e., sliding windows (documents to text
chunks, and (3) embeddings (sentences to tokens). In addition, we note that multimodal data, that is more complex than
pure text, requires additional data processing steps. Images and video data require visual embeddings for Large Visual
Language Models (LVLMs), and audio sources can be preprocessed with text-to-speech or speech-to-text, respectively.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs
2.3

9

Traceability
“Data traceability is the actual exercise to track access, values, and changes to the data as they flow through
their lineage. Data traceability can be used for data validation and verification as well as data auditing. [...]
Data traceability might also be required in an auditing project to demonstrate transparency, compliance,
and adherence to regulations” [3]

Traceability is concerned with understanding the connections between data artifacts and transformations throughout
the LLM pipeline and understanding the inner workings of the LLM chain, such as attention heads, layers, and parameter
circuits. Through this, traceability forms a crucial foundation for data provenance - and, thus, is heavily linked to it.
New approaches, such as watermarking [121], fingerprinting [76], and author attribution [41], employ principles of
data traceability. Additionally, older best practices, i.e., logging[22], also enter the domain of ML and AI.
Efforts to study traceability in LLMs are impeded by the inherently black-box nature of many models and the limited
access to their architectures and parameters. However, open-weight models enable insights into the model’s parameters,
creating opportunities to trace circuits of parameters [34] through the LLM’s generation process, and establishing
openings for transparent and trustworthy inference.
2.4

Transparency
“Transparency is a multifaceted concept that is commonly used to refer to the act of being open. Its use
and interpretation depend on the context.” [73]
“I define software transparency as a condition that all functions of software are disclosed to users.” [65]

We observe transparency in LLM systems as follows: Model parameters are disclosed and all additional features
are observable by users, such as pre- & post-filtering, auxiliary tool calls, weight and token distributions, as well as
logits. Furthermore, documentation options for LLM environments include dataset cards (dataset metadata), model &
system cards (model scope & training characteristics). Models themselves are clustered in two groups: (1) transparent,
open-weight models with disclosed architecture and parameters, and (2) black-boxesque, opaque, closed-weight models
that restrict any access to their internals.
2.5

Interpretability and Explainability

The terms interpretability and explainability are often conflated in AI literature. Recent surveys suggest a growing trend
to distinguish them more precisely across communities [29], with complementary support from broader XAI reviews
[2]. Graziani et al. [29] document that a distinction between interpretability and explainability is increasingly common
among researchers and across disciplines, and Ali et al. [2] provide additional evidence and a taxonomy that reinforces
this emerging separation.
Definition 2.1 (Interpretability). A passive property of a model: the extent to which its internal structure, parameters,
and mechanisms can be directly understood by humans (e.g., small decision trees, sparse linear models, monotonic
GAMs). Interpretability is typically achieved by design and allows reasoning about model behavior without auxiliary
tools.
When feasible, researchers generally prefer models or system components whose behavior can be understood by
inspection. While LLMs with soaring parameter counts are not inherently interpretable, interpretable system design can
Manuscript submitted to ACM

10

Hohensinner et al.
Table 2. Data Provenance & Attribution
Method
Licensing & Attribution
Dataset Licensing
Self Attribution
Source Attribution
Code Attribution
Code Vulnerability
Provenance Extraction & Retrieval
Biomedical Retrieval
Data Processing & Analysis
Metadata Extraction
Information Extraction
Data Generation & Annotation
Data Annotation
Balanced Data Training
Data Transformation
Data Generation
Data Fusion and Active Learning

Evidence Direction

Artifact Entity

Article

Direct
Indirect
Bidirectional
Direct
Indirect
Direct
Direct
Indirect

Provenance metadata objects
Claim attr. metadata,
MultiAttr & PolitiCite
Eval. attr. artifacts (AIS)
Function decompilation & call graphs
Lexical, structural & semantic features
ModelCards
Patch data, commit information

[58]
[42]
[77]
[84]
[64]
[52]
[5]
[110]

Direct
Direct
Indirect
Direct

Query and passage pairs
Raw & refined data, config. files
Model metadata (schemas)
InstructIE dataset

[115]
[100]
[106]
[32]

Direct
Bidirectional
Indirect
Direct
Direct
Bidirectional
Direct
Direct

Semantic Data Dictionary
Generated annotations
Pretraining model checkpoints
Scripts, logs, commands, C2Metadata
Query, documents, labels
Q&A, Attribution spans
Multimodal data source metadata
Annotated lexicons and rules

[83]
[15]
[99]
[96]
[23]
[28]
[9]
[66]

still be pursued: constrained modules, rule- or program-guided reasoning, monotonic submodels, or sparse decision
layers. Interpretability is an inherent quality of the model and often targets AI experts or auditors.
Definition 2.2 (Explainability). An active process (often post hoc) that produces human-understandable reasons
for a model’s predictions or behavior, especially when the model itself is not transparent (e.g., feature attributions,
counterfactuals, example- or concept-based explanations, procedural traces).
For complex or opaque models, we present explanations of particular outputs or global behavior. The focus is on
human understanding (including average users): why and how a result was produced; what steps or decisions were
taken; and which factors influenced the outcome. This is an active process, ideally via interfaces that present post-hoc
explanations (e.g., attributions, counterfactuals, exemplars, chain-of-thought summaries/rationales appropriate for the
audience), with attention to fidelity, stability, and usefulness.
We deem this distinction important because, beyond clarifying intent, using consistent terminology across social
and technical sciences reduces cross-disciplinary ambiguity, improves auditability, and aligns with governance and
reporting practices.
3

Data Provenance & Attribution

The quality of any AI-based system, including LLMs, heavily relies on the quality of its data sources (see, for example
[68]). From the initial training data throughout fine-tuning and additional refinement steps, balanced, high-quality
data is quintessential for well-performing language models. Using poorly balanced training data may result in highly
biased output, an increased chance of hallucinations, or other unwanted behavior. The training data, however, is often
concealed. On the one hand, model creators do not fully disclose their training processes and data for fear of knowledge
drain and business goals. On the other hand, current LLMs are not designed with a focus on linking source data to
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

11

generated outputs. Language models could be designed with a dedicated architecture focusing on the linkage between
the initial source data and the final model outputs. Data provenance applied to the domain of language models could be
useful to shed light on these complex and opaque AI systems. We group the works corresponding to this chapter into
three categories and list their evidence direction and artifact entity in Table 2. An essential aspect of responsible LLM
development concerns the valid (1) licensing of (training) data sources, and the accurate attribution of these sources
to generated outputs. To identify, trace, and restore the origins of data sources for LLMs, (2) Provenance extraction
and retrieval techniques can be applied, while also supporting the analysis of model behaviour. (3) Data generation, a
core competence of LLMs, enables the creation of synthetic data samples, and data annotation is applied to enrich raw
data with semantic information. We classify the provenance evidence into two directions: Direct evidence stemming
from raw data sources to be ingested into LLM systems [5, 9, 23, 32, 52, 58, 66, 83, 84, 96, 100, 115], Indirect evidence
which arises with the help of LLMs [42, 64, 99, 106, 110, 127], and Bidirectional evidence featuring both provenance
stemming from data and LLMs [28, 77]. Furthermore, the artifact entities describe the modalities of how the provenance
information is stored.

3.1

Licensing and Attribution

Foundational LLMs are trained on a plethora of data, which are grouped in datasets, over multiple iterations. At later
stages of an LLM, additional datasets are involved when fine-tuning or during alignment. Extra datasets in the form of
test sets can also be involved when evaluating the previously trained LLM, but compared to the training datasets, these
test sets do not have a direct impact on the parameters of an LLM. Up until recently, these datasets were exclusively
composed by humans and published with corresponding licenses. However, with the recent rise of generative AI, more
and more synthetic datasets are created with the use of LLMs. These synthetically generated datasets pose the risk of
forwarding bias inherited and unintentionally containing proprietary content from the initial training data of host LLMs.
Data attribution concerning LLMs refers to the identification, tracing, and documentation of which particular data
sources were used to train, fine-tune, or align a language model and how outputs trace back to these sources. Tracing
back outputs means grounding answers that stem from models to source documents, which contain information and
knowledge that was used in constructing the answer. We found two approaches for attribution - Provenance-preserving
and Provenance-inferring data attribution. Provenance-preserving data attribution refers to an exact match of source
information and generated answer, such as commonly used in Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. In
RAG-based systems, answers are created by a prompt, which is used to retrieve relevant information from, e.g., a
vector store, based on similarity matching. After the retrieval, the context is forwarded to an LLM. This context acts as
information grounding, which can naturally be attributed to generated answers, simply by the fact that it was forwarded
as an informational context to the question. For classic LLMs used for generative AI, a more complex procedure is
necessary. To link a generated text, or token, to every possible source from the training data, a throughout tracing
mechanism, or a mapping for each parameter group (circuit) to their respective training samples is required.
On the other hand, provenance-inferring data attribution refers to looking for justifying sources post-hoc, e.g., via
a web search, to then ground information of an already generated answer on these sources. Although this forms an
appealing approach, these methods do not genuinely trace sources to results but simulate them by providing justifying
sources. Furthermore, provenance-inferring data attribution is limited by the availability of information for citing
claims, which might not be possible for proprietary data sources, yet exists as knowledge in the language model.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

12

Hohensinner et al.

3.1.1 Dataset Licensing. In their work, Longpre et al. [58] systematically audited more than 1.800 text-based datasets
and call for more transparent ways of handling datasets for the usage of LLMs. They investigate dataset licensing and
attribution, highlighting the grey zone of unspecified licenses on public datasets, and their missing categorization
to commercial or non-commercial usage. Furthermore, Longpre et al. consider the datasets’ origins and usage as
provenance metadata objects directly from sources. They emphasize a focus on legal and ethical usage of data and
present dataset distributions regarding contained topics and involved languages, which can be investigated through
their created data provenance explorer DPExplorer2 .
3.1.2 Self Attribution. Huang et al. [42] propose START, a self-taught attribution framework that enables LLMs to
enhance their attribution capabilities to mitigate hallucinations autonomously. This is achieved without the help of
human-labeled data or external supervision. They evaluated their START on three open-source datasets: ASQA, ELI5,
and StrategyQA. For their data synthesis, they propose a five-step protocol that involves the initial answer generation
without citations, claim decomposition and combination, as well as the document generation, which is sourced by the
refined claims. Finally, they use the attribution labels for each document as references for the initial response as the
last step. For self-improving, they employ a warm-up, rejection sampling, fine-tuning, and fine-grained preference
optimization phase.
Patel et al. [77] address LLM self-attribution for long-form QA over multiple documents and sources. To overcome
the scarcity of annotated multi-source attributable data, they enhance existing QA datasets with attributions (MultiAttr)
and present a multi-source attribution dataset with multi-paragraph answers (PolitiCite). With their dataset, Patel
et al. try to mitigate propagated LLM errors by using expert-written answers and human-retrieved evidence instead
of relying on LLM-generated answers. To create MultiAttr, they propose two strategies using few-shot prompting:
Expanding short to long answers and generating additional positive and negative sources for preexisting QA pairs.
3.1.3 Source Attribution. Source attribution examines how model-generated outputs can be reliably traced back to
identifying evidence and how outputs remain faithful to their underlying sources. Frameworks such as the Attributable
to Identified Sources (AIS) [84] formalize this process by evaluating whether generated claims are fully supported by
their cited documents. Rashkin et al. [84] introduce the AIS, an evaluation framework for assessing whether outputs
of natural language generation (NLG) models are supported by source documents. They describe how AIS can be
applied to different NLG tasks, such as conversational QA, summarization, and table-to-text generation. Additionally,
they highlight that extractive systems, due to their design of quoting verbatim information from documents, achieve
higher AIS scores and are less likely to output hallucinations. Furthermore, Raskin et al. present a two-stage annotation
pipeline for the evaluation of model outputs.
3.1.4 Code Attribution and Vulnerability. Source code generation is one of the core domains of AI-generated data
occurring in the majority of LLM benchmarks. In terms of attribution, this opens another question about the involvement
of source code in the LLM data pipeline. How much and which code sources are used to train modern language models?
And along with this question, new issues emerge regarding licensing, authorship attribution, code vulnerabilities, and
malware attribution. Li and Hong et al. [52] propose a feature set to differentiate between human- and LLM-authored
source code by observing style, technical level, and readability of code. MacDonald et al. [64] introduce two sources of
expressive static features for static malware authorship attribution. Using LLM embeddings to capture features at the
2 https://www.dataprovenance.org/data-provenance-explorer

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

13

function-level based on decompiled source code, and a Graph Neural Network (GNN) approach that takes into account
both function-level analysis as well as global structural level analysis, which performs best.
Bandara et al. [5] and Wang et al. [110] propose insights into vulnerability aspects of source code management. They
propose DevSec-GPT to tackle software container vulnerabilities by leveraging blockchain and generative AI, as a
custom-trained Llama2 language model. They establish effort towards provenance and attribution by their end-to-end
pipeline that is handled via model cards, which are stored in the blockchain for immutability. Wang et al. propose an
automated data collection framework consisting of three modules to 1) untangle vulnerabilities with LLMs and static
analysis tools, 2) extract multi-granularity dependencies, and 3) filter outdated artifacts via a trace-based approach.
Furthermore, Wang et al. introduce their repository-level vulnerability dataset ReposVul, created through patch data,
dependency trees, and trace-based commit histories, providing valuable provenance information within its process.
3.2

Provenance Extraction & Retrieval

Provenance extraction and retrieval focus on identifying, tracing, and restoring the origins of data used in LLMs. This
process enables researchers and practitioners to analyze in more detail how data influences model behaviour, while
ensuring accountability and reproducibility. By retrieving provenance information, these methods enhance transparency
and allow deeper insights into the data flow across the models’ life cycle.
3.2.1 Biomedical Retrieval. Xu et al. introduce BMRetriever, a series of dense text retrievers in various sizes using LLMs
as backbones [115]. They use Pythia [8] for their 410M and 1B parameter, Gemma [102] for their 2B, and BioMistral
[51] for their largest 7B parameter retriever. Two phases of pre-training are presented by Xu et al.: An unsupervised
contrastive pre-training on biomedical query-passage pairs and instruction fine-tuning with diverse labeled data,
which include synthetically generated examples from LLMs (GPT-3.5). Through verifying 200 random samples of the
generated synthetic examples in a human evaluation with medical students, they found no traces of misinformation or
hallucinations. However, this highlights the risk of using synthetically generated data in an unsupervised learning
setting.
3.2.2 Data Processing & Analysis. Sun et al. [100] present a data preprocessing framework for pretraining foundation
models. Because the datasets used for pretraining are often manually curated and cumbersome to create, their proposed framework is aimed at unifying data preprocessing. A preprocessing module, with operators at different data
granularity levels, and an analyzing module to probe refined data, make up the core of their framework. Sun et al.
automatically evaluate their framework with ChatGPT and additionally train two GPT-2 models with and without their
data preprocessing pipeline, and report remarkable performance increases in comparison to the baseline.
3.2.3 Metadata Extraction. Zambrano [127] proposes zero-shot prompting strategies for data extraction in a legal
domain using Llama3-70B and Mixtral-8x7B, showcasing the strong capabilities of LLM-based information extraction.
The experimental setup consists of extracting the first trial court outcome and the subsequent court ruling from 400
manually annotated cases of the French Courts of Appeal. Tsay et al. [106] introduce a library (AIMMX) to extract AI
model metadata from software repositories into flexible metadata schemas alongside an evaluation dataset containing
7998 public models.
3.2.4 Information Extraction. Gui et al. [32] present a human-annotated bilingual instruction-based information extraction dataset (InstructIE) and a framework (KG2Instruction) using Knowledge Graphs to generate similar datasets. The
Manuscript submitted to ACM

14

Hohensinner et al.

framework’s most notable feature is using preexisting relation triples and generating missing triples using preexisting
IE models.
3.3

Data Generation & Annotation

Data generation is a core competence of LLMs, especially modern state-of-the-art Generative Pre-trained Transformers
(GPTs), and their generated outputs range from single to more than 100.000 tokens. In theory, the output of LLMs is
not limited to a certain threshold, but the generation limits typically stem from fair practical reasons. These massive
generative capabilities enable the creation of entire synthetic datasets in a short amount of time, compared to humancurated data. However, this method of data generation introduces new risks into the domain of data science, which are
linked directly to data provenance. Language models may propagate bias into the generated data, which originates from
their own training data, forwarding existing problems. Without human supervision, model hallucinations in generated
data are difficult to detect and pose a threat to further unsupervised data usage. Additionally, this raises the question of
who the author of LLM-generated data is: The prompt-issuer, the model creators, or the mix of influential training data?
To enable answering the latter, provenance information must be preserved throughout the generation process, e.g., via
data annotations in generated text or datasets.
3.3.1 Data Annotation. A crucial step for constructing new datasets is data annotation [15]. It involves labeling and
enriching raw data with semantic information to make it interpretable for machine learning, analytical, and language
models. High-quality annotations are quintessential to ensure validity, reproducibility, and fairness in further processing
tasks. Traditional data annotation relies on manual human labeling, which is not only time-consuming and costly but
also prone to inconsistency.
Recent advances introduce automated and semi-automated annotation methods, including frameworks based on
ontologies that formalize data semantics for interpretability [83, 96], LLMs that act as autonomous or assisting annotators
[15], and the creation of balanced, traceable multilingual text corpora that support transparent model training [100].
Rashid et al. [83] introduce the Semantic Data Dictionary (SDD), a specification aimed at machine-interpretable data
annotations that adds semantics to traditional data dictionaries. SDD increases traceability and interoperability by linking
tabular data to ontology concepts and provides data provenance by including wasDerivedFrom and wasGeneratedBy
relationships within annotations.
Choi et al. [15] propose to use GPTs as autonomous data annotators to generate multilingual, synthetic labels (silber
annotations) from limited available human (gold annotations). From a provenance perspective, this method creates a
traceable annotation pipeline that links human-gold labels with LLM-generated silver.
3.3.2 Balanced Data Training. Sun et al. [99] present FuxiTranyu, a multilingual language model trained on balanced
data. The training corpus consists of balanced multilingual data from 43 different natural languages and 16 programming
languages following a provenance-aware pre-training approach. Sun et al. employ heuristic & learned quality filters,
deduplication processes, and meticulously report the data collection process.
3.3.3 Data Transformation. Song et al. [96] aim to improve traceability and reproducibility for data transformations with
their C2Metadata system that captures transformation and provenance information in Structured Data Transformation
Language (SDTL) as part of metadata.
3.3.4 Data Generation. Frej et al. [23] present MLWIKIR, a Python framework to automatically generate large-scale
Information Retrieval (IR) datasets in multiple languages based on Wikipedia. Their future work points to using these
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

15

Table 3. Traceability & Accountability
Method

Open-Weight Models

Closed-Weight Models

Article

ML-based Logging Practices
Data Transformation Recovery
Contextual Semantic Parsing
Model Prediction Attribution

Code LLama
BART
LLama2-7B, LLama3-8B, Mistral-7B,
Gemma-7B, BART-large, DEBERTA-large
Flan-T5-large
-

GPT4
-

[22]
[59]
[69]
[98]

GPT-3 text-embedding-002 API

[121]

Periodic Watermarking

generated datasets for Deep Learning (DL) training and observing model effects for different languages. Golany et
al. [28] investigate LLM-based data generation in the setting of source-grounded information-seeking dialogs. Their
approach follows a semi-automated approach, where an LLM is used to generate dialog queries and responses, which
are then verified by humans for attribution spans. Additionally, they present MISeD, a dataset of information-seeking
dialogs from the domain of meeting transcripts, and compare fine-tuning with this semi-automated dataset to manual
data.
3.3.5 Data Fusion & Active Learning. In active learning, an ML model proposes the next data points that should be
labeled to learn most effectively. The model issues requests for training examples on which it is most uncertain to a
third entity, most often a human, for labelling these data points. Blasch et al. [9] investigate active learning with joint
data for model training as fusion-based AI, and fusion tools for multimodal data fusion and transfer learning. PyTAIL is
a Python framework for interactive and incremental model training enhanced with human feedback for continuously
evolving text presented by Mishra et al. [66]. It exceeds classic active learning approaches by also suggesting new rules
and lexicons for human validation. With their work, Mishra et al. emphasize human-guided data labeling and feature
curation.
4

Traceability & Accountability

This chapter explores techniques that enhance traceability across both data and model dimensions of LLMs, with each
paper forming a complementary pillar of traceability. Table 3 provides information about the topics and involvement of
LLMs. Traceability is omnipresent in the domain of computer science, and the underlying concept of stacked function
calling possesses the capabilities of observing execution flows. This enables tracing bugs or unexpected behaviors at
runtime to backtrack the initial system error. Furthermore, programmers document execution steps in their code with
logging statements that contain information on current stages and error messages. In the world of ML, traceability is
tackled similarly to general software engineering. Logging statements are used to track program flows and verbalize
error and failure codes, which can be used to trace root causes. In addition, the domain of LLMs is also capable of
adapting logging practices.
4.1

Logging

Although similar in spirit, logging practices in ML differ from general software engineering. Foalem et al. [22] investigate
the differences in these two domains and highlight the most important deviations in logging practices. They analyze 110
open-source ML-based applications from GitHub3 and compare them to logging practices of various software projects
in different programming languages, as well as Android applications. Their findings reveal that ML-based logging is
3 https://github.com/

Manuscript submitted to ACM

16

Hohensinner et al.

less pervasive than software projects written in JAVA, C#, C, or C++, but more pervasive than Android applications.
Additional findings reveal that WARNING and INFO logging statements occur the most in ML-related scenarios, and
although ML-specific logging libraries exist, standard logging libraries are still prevalent in ML projects. Through a
qualitative and quantitative analysis, Foalem et al. show that the model training phase contains the largest amount
of logging statements, whereas the deployment phase contains the least. Furthermore, data, model, and configuration
management are the most important information artifacts that are logged by ML developers.
Following the practices of ML-based approaches, logging can be used similarly in LLM-based AI projects. Operational
traceability can be achieved by logging model states during inference to increase transparency and reproducibility,
and datasets and epochs with intermittent results can be logged during the language model training process to create
auditable provenance information. This ties directly into the domains of metadata capturing and inference tracking to
achieve advancements in data provenance measures.
4.2

Data Transformation Recovery

Data transformations occur when data entries in datasets change over time. Tables in a data repository often undergo
iterative changes when data scientists or machine learning developers fine-tune their pipelines. These changes are seldom
documented, leaving a final dataset without documentation or a change log. Lou et al. [59] investigate the reconstruction
of missing data transformation changes for tables in ML pipelines by employing LLMs for their DATALORE framework.
In their DATALORE framework, Lou et al. use LLMs to infer missing data transformations between table-based datasets
to increase traceability and reproducibility. This procedure is split into three parts: First, the related table discovery
finds connections from base tables to all the tables that contain similar and related information by applying equi-join,
semantic join, and transformation-based join techniques. Second, the related tables are joined to a unified table, which is
then passed to the LLM alongside the augmented table. To improve inference with the language model, this is performed
on just a subset of columns to then generate a potential transformation. If the LLM-generated transformation can change
the table entries to the augmented table, the transformation is considered valid. Third, the table selection refinement
step examines all transformations to find a subset of transformations that are necessary to create the augmented table.
This is achieved by employing a greedy algorithm to find a solution with the least amount of transformations from the
base tables to the augmented tables.
This method highlights how LLMs themselves can act as reasoning agents to reconstruct data transformation
derivation paths, which form an essential part of provenance tracking. Furthermore, this incorporates traceability by
ensuring that provenance information of training data is transparent and reproducible.
4.3

Contextual Semantic Parsing

Moradshahi et al. [69] address the challenge of maintaining semantic and annotation consistency across multilingual
dialogue datasets. In their work, they propose a Contextual Semantic Parsing (CSP) model which is based on BART, and
evaluate it on the RiSAWOZ, CrossWOZ, CrossWOZ-EN, and MultiWOZZH datasets. The model encodes only the latest
agent and user utterances in combination with dialogue states, to avoid compounding errors for translations, without
losing accuracy. Additionally, they propose an automatic dataset translation technique using machine translation,
instead of expensive human annotations. Using this approach, they present two versions of the RiSAWOZ dataset in
English and German with an accuracy within 11% of the original human-annotated versions, showcasing the capabilities
of their translation technique without relying on human annotations.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

Open-weight Model

Closed-weight Model

Transparent & Accessible
Full Visibility:

Architecture, parameters,
and training procedures are
publicly available

Auditable Path:

Inference steps and internal
states can be tracked and
interpreted

17

Opaque & Proprietary

Clear Provenance:
Training datasets are
documented and publicly
available

Limited Visibility:

Architecture, parameters, and
training procedures are trade
secrets and not disclosed

Opaque Process:

Internal model states and
inference logic are hidden
from users

Unknown Provenance:
Data sets and their sources
are undisclosed

Prompt

Response

Prompt:

Response

"Explain Data
Provenance"

"Data Provenance is..."

"Explain Data
Provenance"

"Data Provenance is..."

Fig. 5. Differentiation between the key characteristics of open- and closed-weight LLMs, highlighting the difference in visibility,
traceability, and data provenance.

Regarding traceability, this work directly contributes to transparent transformation procedures by ensuring that
the meaning, structure, and state annotations in multilingual datasets can be traced and aligned faithfully across
translations.
4.4

Model Prediction Attribution

In their work, Su et al. [98] introduce a WrapperBox framework aiming at faithful attribution of model decisions
to training data by exploiting the inherent transparent nature of three classic models kNN, DT and k-means. The
overarching goal of the WrapperBox framework is to wrap LLM representations in classic neural models to trace model
predictions back to specific training samples. They investigated seven open-weight language models: BART-Large,
DEBERTA-large, FLAN-T5-large, LLama2-7B, LLama3-8B, Mistral-7B and Gemma-7B with four evaluation criteria:
Accuracy, Precision, Recall, and F1-Score.
WrapperBoxes are an essential step toward faithfully traceable data attribution and algorithmic recourse by tracing
model decisions back to training samples. Thus, improving efforts regarding model-data attribution.
4.5

Periodic Watermarking

Ye et al. [121] introduce TimeMarker, a periodic watermarking framework that is designed to enhance temporal
traceability and enable copyright protection for LLMs deployed in cloud environments that are used within the
context of Embedding as a Service (EaaS). Their framework enables the identification of model extraction timings
across particular time intervals (sub-periods) by embedding distinct watermarks in the model’s output. This allows
the detection of when a model extraction or misuse occurs. TimeMarker employs adaptive watermark strengths by
using techniques like information entropy and frequency-domain transformation to adjust watermark intensity. They
tested their approach across multiple datasets, such as Ag News, Enron, Mind, SST2, Trec, and verified detection of
model extraction attacks over various sub-periods, and showcased their good performance in comparison to static
watermarking approaches.
From the perspective of traceability, TimeMarker provides temporal accountability and traceability that allows verification of usage timelines, detection of unauthorized extraction attempts, and maintenance of ownership transparency.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

18

Hohensinner et al.
Table 4. Transparency work using open-weight models
Topic & Method

Open-Weight Models

Domain

Article

Short text similarity
Prompt Learning
Interpr. logic KBQA
Social media analysis
KBVQ evaluation

Pretrained sentence transformer models
BERT, T5, MT5, LLaMa-7B, Qwen-7B, Falcon-40B
ChatGLM2, Baichuan2
LLaMA-3, Sentence-BERT (+ GPT-3.5 turbo)
LLaVA-v1.5, InstructBLIP, MiniGPT-v2/-4, BLIP-2,
VisualGLM, OpenFlamingo (+ GPT-4)
Own dense vector model (word2vec)
LLaVA, Llama 3.1
LLamA-3-70B, Mixtral 8x7B
LLamA2-7B (+ GPT-4)
LlamA2, Mistral-7B-inst.
InstructBLIP, mPLUG-Owl, MiniGPT-4, LLaVA-1.5
CLIP
Vicuna LLMs, CLIP (+ GPT-4)
BERT, GPT-2
BERT

Computer Science
Computer Science
Computer Science
Computer Science
Computer Science

[25]
[31]
[114]
[85]
[13]

Biomedical Inf.
Biomedical Inf.
Law & Legal
AI (NLP)
AI (LLM)
AI (Multimodal)
Computer Vision
Computer Vision
Finance
Cybersecurity

[90]
[71]
[127]
[97]
[46]
[21]
[120]
[126]
[130]
[16]

Misspelling generation
Computer-aided diagnosis
Prompt engineering
SAE-Model
LLM internal states
Meta classification
CLIP image localization
Pixel understanding
Market Forecasting
Meta learning

5

Transparency & Opacity

Transparency is emerging as a pillar in assessing the reliability and accountability of LLMs. In regard to data provenance,
transparency is a quintessential quality that enables the understanding of data flows and their origins. A fundamental
distinction divides current LLMs into two groups: Open-weight and closed-weight models. Figure 5 summarizes the
architecture and key characteristics of open-weight and closed-weight language models. Open-weight models are
characterized by the disclosure of their architecture, parameters, and, in some cases, their training data, which allows
for external scrutiny, transparent inference, and the possibility of investigating model inference on private hardware
for fully traceable data flow. Table 4 summarizes the works incorporating open-weight models. In stark contrast to
these fully open models, closed-weight models can be described as black boxes, with related work outlined in Table 6.
Their intrinsic opacity restricts access to internal components entirely and provides little to no visibility into their data
provenance, training procedures, and decision-making mechanisms. This hinders systematic evaluation and independent
auditing while raising concerns about explainability, interpretability, and fairness. Current research on the transparency
of LLMs examines how varying degrees of openness affect the interpretability and explainability of these systems.
Consequently, the remainder of this chapter is split into four sections: (1) research using open-weight models, (2)
works built upon closed-weight models, (3) human-centered interpretability opportunities of language models, and (4)
a perspective on explainability capabilities.
5.1

Open-weight models

Open-weight models offer insights into their internal states and decision-making processes. This transparent design
opens possibilities for responsible and interpretable LLM-based AI research. Gagliardi et al. [25], Gu et al. [31], Xu et al.
[114], Ravi et al. [85], and Cheng et al. [13] extend current research boundaries in the domain of Computer Science.
Gagliardi et al. [25] present a multilingual ensemble method that combines the benefits of open transformer embeddings and WordNet-based methods. The aim to evaluate the semantic similarity of short texts and keywords is
explored across different approaches to identify similarities with different pre-trained language models. In [31], the
AGCVT-Prompt technique is introduced, which auto-generates Chain-of-Thought (CoT) rationales and verbalizers
for prompt learning using models like BERT and T5. This approach significantly improves the transparency and
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

19

interpretability of the decision-making process by employing dual verbalizers for the topic and sentiment prompt
templates. Furthermore, Xu et al. [114] aim to improve the transparency of reasoning paths for Knowledge Base Question
Answering (KBQA). They combine fine-tuning LLMs (ChatGLM2 and Baichuan2) with the logic programming language
Prolog for a generation-retrieval multi-hop KBQA method. By enhancing the reasoning paths with the generation
of logical forms (from Prolog), the reasoning becomes more interpretable. In [85], Ravi et al. present the PRAGyan
framework, which integrates knowledge graphs (KGs) with LLMs to enhance the causal analysis in social media data
(tweets). Their approach employs retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) to retrieve contextually relevant information
from a KG. Thereby, they utilize LLMs such as LLaMA-3 to infer causal relations in tweets by utilizing a KG, yielding
more transparent and interpretable outputs. Cheng et al. [13] present FacGPT, a scalable and deterministic GPT-2-based
evaluator model for automatic KVQA evaluation that achieves better correlation with GPT-4 and human evaluators,
increasing efficiency by 300%. Additionally, they introduce the K-VQA dataset that aims to improve the evaluation of
answer correctness by including human annotations.
The biomedical domain is often confronted with ambiguous text, stemming from illegible handwriting or misspellings.
If undetected, these mistakes are automatically forwarded into medical datasets, leading to multiple instances of the
same medical term (e.g., medications). Sarker et al. [90] present a misspelling generation approach for health domain
keywords using cosine similarity over vector representations and lexical similarity, which defaults as an unsupervised
approach but can be enhanced with supervision. In their work, they employ their own dense vector model (word2vec)
to enhance retrieval quality on often misspelled medical terms. Missing interpretability hinders the transparency of
LLM-based computer-aided diagnosis (CAD). In [71], Mukhlis et al. present a novel CAD framework that enhances
CAD, with LLM-powered visual and textual interpretability. Their method enhances the transparency between the
medical staff, the CAD system, and end-users by creating a trustworthy environment. In their work, they propose an
eight-step CAD procedure that utilizes visual and textual interpretability from the LLaVA and Llama 3.1 LLMs they
employ.
Zambrano [127] evaluates two open-weight LLMs: Llama-3-70B and Mixtral-8x7B for legal outcome extraction in a
zero-shot prompt setting. The study uses a dataset of 400 manually annotated legal decisions from the French Courts
of Appeal. Furthermore, Zambrano shows that accessible open-weight models can achieve close to state-of-the-art
accuracy without fine-tuning. Its results highlight that open-weight LLMs paired with prompt engineering can serve as
transparent, high-performing alternatives to closed-weight proprietary LLMs for data extraction in the legal domain.
Furthermore, AI research itself is investigated in regards to SAE-models [97], LLM internal states [46], and multimodal systems [21]. Song et al. [97] present a Slot-Aware Enhanced Model (SAE) to improve zero-shot dialogue state
tracking (DST) in small pre-trained models (LLaMA2-7B), tackling the closed-source nature and inaccessibility for local
deployment of advanced LLMs. Furthermore, generating slot-aware questions using GPT-4, and using this synthetic
data to train a small-scale model. The trustworthiness and reliability of LLMs are significantly limited by their risk
of hallucinations. In [46], Ji et al. investigate the internal states of LLMs in the context of hallucinations. Similar to
humans, who possess the ability to recognize missing knowledge when presented with a question, internal mechanisms
of LLMs can provide the same information. Their analysis reveals two key insights: (1) internal states reveal whether
an LLM has seen/not seen a query during training, and (2) internal states show the likelihood to hallucinate when
presented with a query. Ji et al. investigate neurons, activation layers, and tokens and achieve an accuracy of 84,32% on
hallucination detection at runtime. They employ LLaMA2-7B and Mistral-7B as their LLM subjects for internal state
detection. Fieback et al. [21] present MetaToken, a binary classifier for hallucination detection on the token-level in
image descriptions with meta classification. The classifier can be applied to any open-source LVLM without requiring
Manuscript submitted to ACM

20

Hohensinner et al.
Table 5. Transparency work using closed-weight models

Topic & Method

Closed-Weight Models

Domain

Article

Transparency of LLMs
Educational AI
GenAI for grading
Online log analysis
LLM-based decomposition
LLM on medical reports

ChatGPT, Bard/Gemini
GPT-4
GPT-4o, GPT-4-turbo
Vicuna-13B, GPT-3.5-turbo
GPT-3 Codex
GPT-3/-3.5/-4

Phil. & Epist. of AI
Education
Education
Computer Science
Computer Science
Medicine

[35]
[67]
[104]
[56]
[122]
[111]

ground truth information. The presented meta-classification approach decides whether a prediction is true or false based
on uncertainty features of LLMs. Additionally, they evaluate their proposed method on four state-of-the-art LVLMs:
InstructBLIP, mPLUG-Owl, MiniGPT-4 and LLaVA-1.5, outperforming confidence-based and prompting baselines.
Computer Vision has become a critical component of modern AI systems, enabling models to process, interpret and
generate visual information [120, 126]. Yao et al. [120] present an image localization method for single images based
on CLIP-guided prompts. The weights of the integrated score map enhance the model’s transparency and improve
interpretability. CLIP and clear guidance mechanisms provided by prompts clarify feature identification and extraction.
Thus, improving the general interpretability and transparency as well as reliability. Yuan et al. [126] present Osprey, a
mask-text instruction tuning approach that extends MLLMs with a CLIP backbone. To achieve this, regions are masked
into language instructions aiming at pixel-wise visual understanding. Yuan et al. employ GPT-4 to generate high-quality
mask-text pairs for their Osprey-724k dataset. Furthermore, reporting State-of-the-art region understanding and reduced
hallucinations.
Also, the financial domain is supplemented by transparent AI research, aiming toward interpretable market forecasting
[130], In [130], Zhang et al. introduce a BERT-based long and short-term memory retrieval (LASER) architecture to
forecast market volatility as well as tackle interpretability concerns with their GPT-2-guided BEAM algorithm. The
BEAM architecture generates human-readable narratives that verbalize the evidence and path leading to the model
prediction. Together, these two approaches form the LASER-BEAM pipeline.
Finally, toward cybersecurity, Corona-Frage et al. [16] propose a QA framework for vulnerable source code review that
integrates BERT with a Prototype-Based Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (Proto-MAML) approach. BERT is leveraged
with Few-Shot Learning (FSL) to detect and explain code vulnerabilities with minimal data, yet achieving F1 and EM
scores of close to 100%. By combining BERT’s embeddings with meta-learning adaptability, their approach produces
transparent and interpretable outputs, which enhances traceability in AI-assisted code analysis.
5.2

Closed-weight models

Closed-weight language models are perceived as black-boxes. This goes along with unwarranted attitudes of trust and
trustworthiness [35]. Heersmink et al. [35] investigate this topic from a philosophical and epistomological standpoint.
They propose that this stems from a lack of data transparency and algorithmic transparency by analyzing the current
phenomenon of anthropomorphizing of LLM systems in the form of chatbots such as ChatGPT and Bard.
AI and LLMs are setting foot in teaching, Misiejuk et al. [67] and Thomas et al. [104] explore their impact on the
domain of education. They [67] examine the potential of LLMs like GPT-4 for coding student discourse, highlighting the
importance of transparency for generative AI in the educational domain and presenting moderate reliability and barriers
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

21

Table 6. Human-centered interpretability and model passive characteristics

Characteristic & Method

Article

Explanation rendering approaches
Concept- and representation-level methods and domain-specific considerations
Architecture, hybrids, and editing
Causal and evaluation-driven interpretability
A philosophical aside: do only the activated weights “matter”?

[50] [31] [131] [61] [119] [48] [93]
[78] [113] [129] [125] [53] [63]
[6] [128] [37] [117]
[87] [11] [88]
[18] [12]

such as high cost and token limits. Similar to the topic of educational AI, Thomas et al. [104] present the effectiveness
of multiple-choice Questions relative to open-response questions. They compare the performance of 234 tutors and
investigate two LLMs, GPT-4o and GPT-4o-turbo, for automatic grading of open-response questions, highlighting that
prompting for rationale can help in obtaining more interpretable outputs.
The domain of computer science itself is also prominent in LLM research - Liu et al. [57] and [122] investigate log
analysis and table-based reasoning. Liu et al. [57] present LogPrompt, an interpretable log analysis approach for online
scenarios using LLMs (GPT-3.5 & Vicuna) and a suite of enhanced prompting strategies, showing large performance
gains (380%) in comparison to using single prompts. A human evaluation of the interpretability of LogPrompt yields
high scores for the usefulness and readability of the generated content and justifications. Additionally, LogPrompt
also supports the employment of smaller-scale open-source LLMs. Ye et al. [122] present an approach to employ LLMs
(GPT-3 Codex) for decomposing evidence and questions for table-based reasoning. Additionally, they highlight that
their method even surpasses human performance on the TabFact dataset and provides interpretability of results via
tracing of generated sub-evidence and sub-questions.
Finally, Wei et al. [111] present an evaluation framework for LLM performance on medical questions, based on
reports. Within their meta-analysis, ChatGPT achieved an accuracy result of 56% in addressing medical queries.
5.3

Interpretability

Interpretability provides insight into how model inputs relate to outputs, making it a key component of transparency.
We use interpretability in a user-centric sense: the degree to which intended users can understand why a model
produced a given output in their task context, with minimal cognitive load. In modern deep/LLM systems, this is
typically operationalized by (i) designing modules that promote understandable intermediate structure, and (ii) post-hoc
procedures that render behavior legible for different audiences.
5.3.1 Explanation rendering approaches. One line of work seeks to surface intermediate reasoning so users can follow the
path to an answer. Trace-/Chain-of-Thought style prompting decomposes complex problems into subproblems, exposing
stepwise rationale to enhance interpretability of the process rather than only the final answer [31, 50]. Plan-first pipelines
similarly externalize plans before execution to make long-form reasoning auditable (e.g., planner–reasoner–verbalizer
for LFTQA) [131]. While such rationales aid human understanding, they require fidelity checks to ensure they track the
model’s actual computation.
Token-/feature-level views remain central. Layerwise Relevance Propagation variants adapted to sequential student
modeling [61] and specialized biomedical attributions/visualizations (e.g., BertViz-based analyses of circRNA models)
[119] illustrate how local importance signals and circuit overviews help users form mechanistic intuitions. For LVLMs,
tools like Logic Lens visualize layerwise behaviors to detect when and where reasoning emerges, addressing transparency
Manuscript submitted to ACM

22

Hohensinner et al.

and reproducibility concerns [48]. More broadly, interpretability benefits from UI scaffolding: explicitly structured
reports, checklists, and reviewer prompts that make the process of generating and validating summaries transparent to
humans [93].
5.3.2 Concept- and representation-level methods and domain-specific considerations. A complementary line constrains
or probes models via human-interpretable concepts. Concept Bottleneck Models (CBMs) promise inherent interpretability,
with predictions being mediated by named concepts, but face annotation burden and concept availability; recent work
mitigates this with pretrained VLMs and LLMs to propose or validate concepts [78]. Topic-modeling work shows that
richer, human-facing outputs (beyond token lists) improve perceived reliability and interpretability for readers [113].
For domain knowledge, Markov Logic Networks paired with LLM-assisted knowledge acquisition/formalization target
transparent, checkable intermediate structure [129].
Across application areas, “interpretability" is pursued via domain-tailored structure plus human-facing outputs:
txt2onto 2.0 leverages LLM embeddings to make unstructured biomedical metadata legible via ontologies [125];
interpretability is treated as a first-class metric alongside performance in entity–relation extraction under noise-robust
training [53]; and in HR analytics, fine-tuned LLMs are evaluated not only on accuracy but also on the clarity of their
rationales relative to classic ML baselines [63].
5.3.3 Architecture, hybrids, and editing. Hybrid systems balance raw flexibility and clarity. Examples include ANFIS+LLM hybrids for social-media analysis [6], interpretable transfer frameworks (e.g., KAI / ZSSD) for zero-shot
learning [128], and white-box surrogates or sparsified layers to expose decision rules in safety-critical settings [37].
Targeted model editing offers an interventionist perspective via modifying hidden states or components to align
behavior with human expectations and then auditing the localized effect. This approach is explicitly framed as being
interpretability-oriented [117].
5.3.4 Causal and evaluation-driven interpretability. Causal perspectives aim to separate signal from spurious correlation.
Galeras introduces a causal-inference benchmarking frame across software-engineering tasks to interrogate LLM
behavior [87]. Statistical tests like the Interpretability Randomization Test (IRT) and One-Shot Feature Test (OSFT) probe
whether purportedly important features actually matter, by systematically substituting or randomizing inputs/features
and observing degradation [11]. In regulated domains, preference for simpler statistical models is often motivated by
auditability and justification rather than accuracy alone; recent surveys argue for prioritizing interpretable modeling
(and privacy-aware pipelines) where stakes are high, while exploring LLMs for logical reasoning as complementary
aids [88].
5.3.5 A philosophical aside: do only the activated weights “matter”? A tempting assumption is a kind of compartmentalization: for a given prediction, the currently activated units/weights are the ones that “really" matter, suggesting an
inherent, passive interpretability of deep nets. Mechanistic work on superposition and polysemanticity shows why this
is unreliable: networks often pack many unrelated features into overlapping directions, so the same unit can implement
multiple, context-dependent features; causal contribution is not cleanly localized to what happens to be firing strongly
[18]. Methods like causal scrubbing test mechanistic hypotheses by resampling or swapping activations along putative
circuits and checking whether behavior is preserved, offering a more principled way to validate “which parts mattered”
beyond raw activation magnitude [12].
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

23

Table 7. Explainabilty
Overal Goal

5.4

Scope

Stage

Application

Article

Generating explanations using LLMs

Local

Post-hoc
Post-hoc
Ante-hoc

Model Agnostic
Model Specific
Model Specific

[4] [7] [60]
[124] [91]
[118]

Augmenting existing explanations

Local and Global

Post-hoc

Model Agnostic

[107]

Explaining LLMs

Global

Post-hoc

Model Agnostic

[105]

Explainability

Explainability focuses on generating reasons for a model’s decision-making process, thereby enhancing transparency.
Following the definition in Section 2.2, explainability is an active process focused on producing human-understandable
rationales for a model’s decision-making process. In this process, developed artifacts have different characteristics
based on their scope, inference stage, goal, and relation to the underlying model. Literature on eXplainable AI (xAI) [29]
[2] typically defines local and global approaches as the scope of explanations provided by the explainability technique.
Local explanations are focused on explaining the behavior of a specific instance or input to the model, whereas global
explanations provide rationales for the whole model’s behavior and remain true to overall observations. Additionally,
literature outlines post-hoc and ante-hoc xAI method categories as characteristic of a stage of model development in
which these methods are implemented. Post-hoc methods refer to the methods employed after the model has been
trained, while ante-hoc methods are deployed during the training and development stages. Finally, model-specific and
model-agnostic are characteristics of a method related to its connection to the underlying model it is trying to explain.
While model-specific methods are tied to mechanisms of specific models, model-agnostic methods (often also post-hoc)
are independent of the kind of model used.
Several overarching goals were identified and analyzed in the following section through an in-depth analysis of the
identified literature related to explainability. Outlined in Table 7, alongside the previously described characters, these
overarching goals are (1) generating explanations using LLMs, (2) augmenting existing explanations, and (3) explaining
LLMs.
5.4.1 Generating explanations using LLMs. Literature with the first overarching goal, generating explanations using
LLMs, utilizes LLMs to generate local explanations for a specific downstream task. Arabzadeh et al. [4] develop a
framework for evaluating the applicability and utility of LLM-powered applications. In their work, they construct a
framework consisting of several agents, such as Critic Agent, Quantifier, and Verifier, which, based on the nature of the
task, develop criteria and evaluate the utility of the applications. They suggest that analyzing the behavior of such
agents contributes to the explainability of the overall utility evaluation task. Following a similar concept, Bhaskar
and Stodden [7] propose ReproScore metrics evaluated through an LLM. Although the overall task is predictive, the
analysis of the evaluation steps helps understand the overall decision-making process. Finally, in [60], Lu et al. aim to
improve the explainability through a few-shot biomechanical knowledge fusion framework. The presented approach
incorporates hierarchical context into prompts, leveraging models’ reasoning capabilities while respecting hierarchical
constraints to make knowledge base integration more transparent.
While previously outlined methods are model-agnostic, Yu et al. [124] present a model-specific process for LLM
fine-tuning to provide explainable recommendations for Click-Through Rate prediction. They developed a custom
reward function - an alignment process to reflect user intentions, and utilize the LLaMa-3-7b model for finetuning using
Manuscript submitted to ACM

24

Hohensinner et al.
Table 8. Bias & Uncertainty

Topic

Focus

Article

Meassurig bias
Data curation
LLMs in research
LLMs for text classification
Quantifying uncertainty
Data and model uncertainty
Performance and Reliability

Gender bias in text data
Amplifying bias
Amplifying data and model bias
Mitigating human-induced bias
Input alteration
Software engineering
Scaling laws

[45]
[101]
[44]
[24]
[38]
[89]
[14]

a Low-Rank Adaptation approach. Further research [91] explores using a GPT-4-based language-based explainability
component to generate explanations of model behavior in a cancer detection downstream task. The component utilizes
activation feature maps and GradCAM visualization to generate high-level textual explanations. Finally, contrary to
previously outlined approaches, where methods are utilized in a post-hoc manner, Yang et al. [118] present ante-hoc,
model-specific methods for generating explanations in evaluating mental health on social media. Through the finetuning process, these models are presented with explanations and evaluations from mental health experts and adapted
to generate explanations jointly with predictions.
5.4.2 Augmenting existing explanations. Work focused on the second overarching goal, augmenting existing explanations,
aims to enhance, transform, or adapt existing explanations to make explanations more accessible and interpretable.
Recent research [107] introduced a method based on established xAI techniques LIME and SHAP augmented with natural
language capabilities of LLMs, to address the challenges of augmenting existing explanations. The proposed approach
uses these xAI methods to analyze the contribution of different features in deep generative models. Subsequently, this
post-hoc method proposes generating user-adapted, natural language explanations suited to end users with varying
levels of technical expertise.
5.4.3 Explaining LLMs. Finally, explaining LLMs, focuses on understanding the characteristics of the model itself.
Following this idea, Topal et al. [105] developed a set of LLM evaluations with an emphasis on trustworthiness, fairness,
and robustness. These evaluations provide an insight into the global characteristics and capabilities of several Turkishcapable LLMs. Overall, the multi-prompt-based method was evaluated on models such as: Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct,
Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct, Mistral-7B-Instruct, gemma2-9b-it, making the overall approach model-agnostic.
6

Bias & Uncertainty

Bias and uncertainty analysis reveal how the underlying training data and model processes influence the system’s
behavior, highlighting the need for provenance information to detect and mitigate harmful outputs. Bias is inherent in
human behavior [19] and, consequently, it is in data. This might lead to detrimental bias or discrimination in algorithmic
results, decreasing “fairness". As such, research on understanding sources of bias, quantifying bias, and methods for
mitigating bias has been conducted in the general context of AI-based systems (e.g., [72]), as well as LLMs in particular
(e.g., [26]).
When bias is present in LLM training data, the bias is adopted by the model itself. Bias and discrimination can
then non-insignificantly guide the model’s actions. Jain et al. [45] propose an approach that exploits methods from
NLP and Explainable AI to calculate a gender bias score based on the common co-occurrence of gendered nouns and
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

25

pronouns in close textual proximity, i.e., within sentences. When unregulated, the models learn directly from data, and
the stronger the bias in that data, the stronger it will be in the model’s output. Consequently, a reinforcement effect
is expected when LLM training data is scraped from the Internet, because more and more text is generated by LLMs
themselves. When model outputs replace human annotations, feedback loops occur that lead to generalization issues
and the probable amplification of bias, e.g., through less diverse content or newly introduced biases. The investigation
of emerging data feedback cycles suggests that it is essential to keep LLMs well calibrated, prefer the application of
sampling-based decoding strategies, and keep humans in the loop of data generation [101]. Similar feedback loops
are to be expected in scientific writing. While the application of LLMs opens the publication sphere to non-native
speakers at a rapid pace, commonly used LLMs include all kinds of bias, particularly in failing to depict inclusion and
diversity efforts, which is nowadays considered good practice in scientific communities. This can be partly attributed
to the training on historical data sources. Additional bias is introduced by user preferences, e.g., through up or down
voting, or by providing user context or specific prompting that the algorithm adapts to. Thus, if LLMs are trained
on AI-generated research content, biases and errors will increase, and unwanted or outdated patterns are likely to
propagate and repeat [44]. However, other research endeavors also explore the linguistic capacity of LLMs to mitigate
human bias in text and classification tasks, ultimately improving automation. Fuhnwi et al. [24] for instance, investigates
the use of LLM-generated categorization of spam data to avoid bias from humanly hand-labeled spam messages and
proposes an approach that succeeds with a fairness and accuracy increase.
Uncertainty is a quantifiable construct that indicates the degree to which an LLM is confident in the accuracy,
robustness, and bias of its output. The level of uncertainty plays a pivotal role in user trust. If uncertainty is not marked
properly, people may be irritated by the LLM’s hallucinations or, even worse, rely on incorrect information.
Commonly used as a reliability indicator, it can be calculated in two components: (1) Aleatoric (data) uncertainty:
which results from ambiguity in data or prompting and more (unknown unknowns), and (2) Epistemic (model)
uncertainty: which increases if the model lacks skill or information to answer a question [109].
Hou et al. [38] introduces a framework for uncertainty decomposition to evaluate LLMs on a more informed level.
By exploiting alterations to input prompts, a strategy that is applicable for black-box models, the research work elicits
different manifestations of uncertainty, enabling quantification of individual components and the construct as a whole.
Ji et al. [46] investigates whether LLMs’ internal states can be exploited to determine uncertainty by inferring the risk
of hallucination in response to a provided query. The study concludes that LLMs’ self-assessment, which takes into
account internal states, shows more promise than other state-of-the-art methods.
Fieback et al. [21] present an approach towards predicting hallucinations in large visual language models. Independent
of the ground-truth dataset, the method is based purely on model output analysis, performing meta-classification to
identify mistakes, i.e., hallucinated objects.
Other works address the underlying factors that increase a model’s uncertainty. For instance, uncertainty may increase
due to data leakage between training data and memorization. This likely leads to generalization issues and biased
performance evaluations, which become apparent when the model is confronted with novel questions. Furthermore,
there is no guarantee that outputs remain consistent over time, as temperature changes or model updates may cause
deviations, which, again, lead to uncertainty due to the failure of reproducibility results [89]. One manifestation of
a lack of reproducibility appears when semantically similar queries yield inconsistent or inaccurate answers (nondeterministic). Yang et al. [117] investigates this phenomenon and proposes a method that exploits the artificial addition
of noise or bias to the hidden layer of the most important components of the LLM. The authors claim to have successfully
improved consistency in semantically deviating queries.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

26

Hohensinner et al.
A more general approach to increasing model reliability and performance is to train according to scaling laws that

aim to define the optimal ratio between model complexity, dataset size, and computing power. Recently, [14] investigated
the accuracy of scaling laws using open-source data and models. They conclude that, in addition to dataset size, the
specific characteristics of data are particularly influential on model and task-specific scaling. Thus, for the success of
further research and development, foundation datasets and open datasets will play a pivotal role.
7

Privacy

Data Privacy is a concern when using LLMs - especially if there is no access to the underlying model [89]. The
relationship between privacy and provenance warrants a deeper analysis. Differential privacy [17] is an approach that
addresses membership inference attacks. In machine learning, the objective is to prevent individual data points from
being identifiable within the training set. In other words, the trained model should behave similarly whether or not a
specific instance is included in the data. At the surface level, this goal appears to contrast with that of data provenance.
Some approaches aim to combine privacy preservation with key elements of data provenance. In [49], Kirmayr et
al. propose a system for an in-car assistant, where users may have concerns regarding the use of private data. They
highlight that one should distinguish between semantic memory and episodic memory in conversational systems. To
accomplish a desired level of privacy, users may opt out of specific classes that are utilized in an information extraction
step. They further propose that transparency can be achieved by showing what data has been stored and where.
The use of access control to ensure protection of private and confidential data is presented by Jiang et al. [47],
in a clinical context. Furthermore, they highlight the need for interpretability of systems in such a setting. To this
end, they examine hierarchical RAG systems in which multiple indices are governed by distinct access control rules.
Searches are distributed across the indices for which the current user has read permissions, and the retrieved results are
subsequently aggregated. Their work demonstrates that RAG-based architectures can serve as a practical means of
achieving transparency and data provenance.
8

Provenance Tools & Techniques

Provenance tools and techniques are the methodological backbone for capturing, managing, and analyzing the data flow
throughout the LLM life cycle. Starting at the origin of data sources operationalized during training to the generated
output of resulting models, tools & techniques enable sense-making of LLM decisions and tracing truthful attribution
of answers to underlying data references, depending on the transparency potential of the chosen models. We separate
tools from techniques by the following characteristics: (1) Tools are reusable libraries, datasets, visual inspection suites,
or end-to-end systems, and (2) Techniques are modeling or methodological approaches that can be implemented across
multiple tools and domains. Furthermore, we present important tools & techniques found throughout our literature
review and summarize key concepts for each of the extracted components. Some works could be listed as either a tool
or a technique. For overlapping items, they are placed based on their apparent main contribution.
8.1

Tools

Roberts et al. [86], Yadagiri et al. [116], Shah-Mohammadi and Finkelstein [92], Iranfar et al. [43], and Longpre et al.
[58] present provenance tools that aid in capturing and analyzing data flows through LLMs.
• t5x and seqio. Open source libraries for JAX and TPU-based training and for task-based data pipelines. The
design supports deterministic processing, reproducibility, recoverability, and provenance tracking [86].
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

27

• Direct Velocity for authorship verification. A BERT-based classifier with linguistic features for human versus
AI attribution. Useful for integrity checks and compliance verification [116].
• Automated meta analysis pipeline. Outcome extraction with GPT-4 and semantic outcome alignment with
Sentence BERT. The pipeline standardizes heterogeneous clinical reports and improves traceability [92].
• Surgical skill assessment dataset with soft data. The Vertex Pursuit task pairs expert free text comments
with interaction logs. Transparency comes from documenting the data pipeline and methods, while traceability
is ensured through structured metadata with timestamps, labels, and comments. [43].
• Data provenance explorer The data provenance explorer enables users to trace and filter data provenance information of popular finetuning data collections with an interactive UI. The explorer improves dataset transparency
and responsible data use [58].
8.2

Techniques

This section outlines the techniques presented by Raleigh and Raleigh [82], Zhu et al. [133], Yu et al. [123], Macdonald
et al. [64], Feuer et al. [20], and Hanna et al. [34] that can be applied across multiple tools and domains.
• Legal query reformulation as monolingual NMT. Encoder & decoder with attention to rewrite noisy
legal queries into well-formed queries using semi-supervised pairs from logs. The paper documents the data
generation pipeline, preprocessing steps, and reports on the algorithm used and the results obtained, covering
several important parts of the data provenance. [82].
• Statement level code summarization with LLMs. Evaluation of GPT-4, GPT-3.5, CodeLlama, and StarChat
against CodeT5 on Java and Python, including prompt and temperature analyses. The paper explains the provenance of the dataset, covering selection, processing, evaluation, statistics, model configurations, experimental
setups, and both metric-based and human-assessed results. [133].
• Knowledge graph augmented diagnosis with LLM prompts. The DeLL approach fuses EMR text with
knowledge graph disease subgraphs encoded with GCNs and uses LLM prompts to enrich representations for
prediction. By documenting dataset provenance, detailing the preprocessing pipeline, including de-identification,
and presenting the system architecture, the study enhances both traceability and transparency. Traceability
is achieved through clear data lineage and transformation steps, while transparency is supported by openly
describing design choices and privacy safeguards, enabling reproducibility and ethical evaluation. [123].
• Trace-of-Thought distillation and task decomposition. Transfer teacher reasoning to smaller students
through structured traces and decompose questions into steps to expose intermediate reasoning. This work
enhances reasoning transparency by breaking problems into structured steps, enabling human-in-the-loop
oversight and correction before execution. [64].
• Prior Data Fitted Network scaling with TuneTables. TuneTables is a parameter-efficient fine-tuning method
that scales Prior-Data Fitted Networks (PFNs) like TabPFN to millions of samples using soft prompt tuning. It
promotes fairness via demographic parity regularization and improves interpretability by summarizing key
features, enhancing transparency and trust.[20].
• Circuit tracing Enables a deeper understanding of model decision-making by observing circuits of parameters
during model inference. Includes a tool to trace circuits4 [34].
4 https://github.com/safety-research/circuit-tracer

Manuscript submitted to ACM

28
9

Hohensinner et al.
Discussion

This section synthesizes our key findings across existing literature on data provenance, transparency, and traceability
for LLMs, highlighting emerging trends, methodological challenges, and open questions that have shaped recent years,
current progress, and the future landscape of AI development. In addition to that, it comprises the growth of adjacent
domains of interpretability, explainability, bias & uncertainty, provenance tools & techniques, as well as data privacy,
which are closely tied to the discipline of data provenance for LLMs.
As the language model parameter size keeps rising, new approaches for data acquisition are needed, and preexisting
pitfalls in data handling become more pronounced. From the error-prone licensing of datasets [58] to the generation of
missing annotations in databases [15], the problem of scarce data labeling and unstructured, widespread data sources
arises. Data [98] and source [42, 77] attribution emerge as the clear goal of trustworthy, reliable AI development.
Best practices in software engineering, such as logging [22], also emerge in domains such as LLMs, generative AI,
and ML. Furthermore, new approaches such as watermarking [121] and self-attribution [42] appear.
Current model developments split AI research into two directions: (1) trust-focused, transparent, and open interpretation of language models, and (2) feature-driven, opaque, performance development. Then, we distinguish interpretability
as a user-facing understanding of why a model produced an output (through inherent, passive characteristics of
the model), and explainability as the process and interface that generates human-readable reasons. This separation
helps align evaluation and governance. It also clarifies when to prefer interpretable design choices and when to rely
on post hoc methods. We note that explainability-focused work aims for human-centered understandability, while
interpretability-driven research deals with complex model analysis.
Inherently, human bias is imparted into data sources that form the foundation of training data for LLMs. This leads
to language models adopting unexpected behaviours [89] and biased outputs [45]. Provenance tools [58] and techniques
[34] emerge towards AI data governance. Data privacy, however, remains an open question and a pressing concern. Due
to the one-directional, final flow of knowledge into models, it appears impossible to protect one’s personal information,
especially with little to no insight into the training data. But, approaches like model editing [117] aim to surgically
remove undesired information from language models.
To summarize, data provenance goes hand in hand with transparency and traceability for LLMs. Without a traceable
data flow, the origins of individual datums cannot be retained, and without a transparent, open model design, traceability
is seemingly impossible. Bias is intrinsic to data sources and thus propagates into language models’ training data. Data
privacy concerns are directly linked to provenance tools and techniques, which aim to tackle the rise of data obfuscation
in connection to LLMs.

10

Current Limitations & Future Work
• Observation of classes in training data: In some cases, training data involves classes that represent types of
knowledge. Future work should investigate whether these classes also propagate within model parameters, and
their origins should be traceable and attributable.
• Data contamination: LLMs are trained on public information corpora gathered from the web, and the sheer
amount of data makes manual filtering impossible. It is unknown whether evaluation datasets are also included
within the training corpora. Future research should investigate what impact of this spillage and the mixture of
the test data on the evaluation of LLMs.

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

29

• Propagating biases through language models: Biases are intrinsic to human-authored data sources. These
biases propagate into LLMs through training and can lead to unintended and unwanted behaviour. Using LLMs
for data generation forwards the learned, biased characteristics into synthetic data sources. Future research
should aim to detect and mitigate biases resulting in LLM responses for artificial data generation.
• Data provenance for LLM-generated content: LLMs’ generative capabilities have become popular for the
creation of data. This source of synthetic data raises questions about the provenance of information, such as:
Who is the author of such datasets? Future research should aim at a deeper understanding of the implications of
these data transformations for LLM-based data generation.
• Scarcity of labeled, annotated data: Manually labeling and annotating datasets is expensive and timeconsuming. We found that some reviewed works propose using LLMs to carry out the labeling step, also
in a semi-supervised method. Future research should investigate what impact these LLM-generated, synthetic
data labels have on the scientific community.
• Prompt and version drift in LLM pipelines: Reproducibility relies on stable prompts and LLM settings and
versions. Small changes to prompts or silent model updates or changes can change outputs and derived labels.
This weakens traceability and provenance claims - leading to possible unstable explanations.
• Faithfulness of explanations: Natural language explanations and attribution maps may not reflect the true
reasoning behind model predictions. Future work should include causal validation of explanations through
controlled interventions and perturbation analyses to assess fidelity and faithfulness.
• The right to be forgotten: The right to be forgotten describes the right to remove one’s personal information
from online directories accessible through internet searches. LLMs, as well, can unknowingly ingest private data
and personal information into their parameters that one wishes to erase. Future research should investigate
methods to detect and delete private information from language models, e.g., model unlearning.
11

Conclusion

This survey offers a thorough overview of the developments in data provenance, together with transparency and
traceability for LLMs over the past decade. Along the supporting pillars, bias & uncertainty, privacy, and provenance
tools & techniques, we summarize key findings and highlight interconnections. Data provenance for LLMs demands
attention not just for data flows into LLMs, but simultaneously also for output data generated by LLMs. Transparency
enables the investigation of models’ decision-making and understanding procedures, whereas a lack of transparency
may hinder it. Traceability aims at ways to follow the trails of data and its knowledge propagation through LLMs,
with logging and watermarking emerging as noteworthy approaches. The surveyed papers make clear that without
an active process, provenance information is being lost through the parameterization of model training in LLMs and
the generated output data can no longer be attributed to the original influencing sources. Bias is inevitably present in
data and also leads to bias in LLMs. This bias can be mitigated to a certain extent, but according to literature cannot
be fully avoided. Privacy concerns highlight the need to be able to trace personal information being embedded into
LLMs, with a lack of effective methods highlighting a relevant research gap. The survey presents provenance tools and
techniques, designed to aid in tracing provenance information. They help in unraveling complex model decision-making
processes to understand LLM-internal procedures. To synthesize the considered works, tracking the origins of data
sources flowing into LLMs will enable the attribution of model decisions and generated responses to underlying sources,
and will increase transparency and reproducibility. Finally, this survey lays out a roadmap of further research directions
and future work toward transparent, robust, and reproducible AI research for LLMs.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

30
12

Hohensinner et al.
Acknowledgements

This work has been supported by the FFG, Contract No. 915297: “TrustInLLM” and Contract No. 911655: "Pro2Future II
is funded within the Austrian COMET Programme (Competence Centers for Excellent Technologies) under the auspices
of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Innovation, Mobility and Infrastructure (BMIMI), the Austrian Federal Ministry of
Economy, Energy and Tourism (BMWET), and of the Provinces of Upper Austria and Styria. COMET is managed by the
Austrian Research Promotion Agency FFG.”
References
[1] Mansoor Ahmed, Amil Rohani Dar, Markus Helfert, Abid Khan, and Jungsuk Kim. 2023. Data provenance in healthcare: approaches, challenges,
and future directions. Sensors 23, 14 (2023), 6495.
[2] Sajid Ali, Tamer Abuhmed, Shaker El-Sappagh, Khan Muhammad, Jose M Alonso-Moral, Roberto Confalonieri, Riccardo Guidotti, Javier Del Ser,
Natalia Díaz-Rodríguez, and Francisco Herrera. 2023. Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI): What we know and what is left to attain Trustworthy
Artificial Intelligence. Information fusion 99 (2023), 101805.
[3] Mark Allen and Dalton Cervo. 2015. Data Quality Management. 131–160. doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-800835-5.00009-9
[4] Negar Arabzadeh, Siqing Huo, Nikhil Mehta, Qinqyun Wu, Chi Wang, Ahmed Awadallah, Charles L. A. Clarke, and Julia Kiseleva. 2024. Assessing
and Verifying Task Utility in LLM-Powered Applications. (5 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.02178
[5] Eranga Bandara, Peter Foytik, Sachin Shetty, Ravi Mukkamala, Abdul Rahman, Xueping Liang, Ng Wee Keong, Kasun De Zoysa, Aruna Withanage,
Nilaan Loganathan, and Isuru Udhantha. [n. d.]. DevSec-GPT-Generative-AI (With Custom-Trained Meta’s Llama2 LLM), Blockchain, NFT and PBOM
Enabled Cloud Native Container Vulnerability Management and Pipeline Verification Platform. Technical Report.
[6] Micaela Lucia Bangerter, Giuseppe Fenza, Domenico Furno, Mariacristina Gallo, Vincenzo Loia, Claudio Stanzione, and Ilsun You. 2024. A Hybrid
Framework Integrating LLM and ANFIS for Explainable Fact-Checking. IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems (2024). doi:10.1109/TFUZZ.2024.3431710
[7] Adhithya Bhaskar and Victoria Stodden. 2024. Reproscreener: Leveraging LLMs for Assessing Computational Reproducibility of Machine Learning
Pipelines. In Proceedings of the 2nd ACM Conference on Reproducibility and Replicability, REP 2024. Association for Computing Machinery, Inc,
101–109. doi:10.1145/3641525.3663629
[8] Stella Biderman, Hailey Schoelkopf, Quentin Anthony, Herbie Bradley, Kyle O’Brien, Eric Hallahan, Mohammad Aflah Khan, Shivanshu Purohit,
USVSN Sai Prashanth, Edward Raff, Aviya Skowron, Lintang Sutawika, and Oskar van der Wal. 2023. Pythia: A Suite for Analyzing Large Language
Models Across Training and Scaling. arXiv:2304.01373 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.01373
[9] Erik Blasch, Andreas Savakis, Yufeng Zheng, Genshe Chen, Ivan Kadar, Uttam Majumder, and Ali K. Raz. 2022. Joint data learning panel summary.
SPIE-Intl Soc Optical Eng, 18. doi:10.1117/12.2619537
[10] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems 33 (2020), 1877–1901.
[11] Collin Burns, Jesse Thomason, and Wesley Tansey. 2020. Interpreting Black Box Models via Hypothesis Testing. In FODS 2020 - Proceedings of the
2020 ACM-IMS Foundations of Data Science Conference. Association for Computing Machinery, Inc, 47–57. doi:10.1145/3412815.3416889
[12] Lawrence Chan, Adrià Garriga-Alonso, and ... 2022. Causal Scrubbing: a method for rigorously testing interpretability hypotheses. AI Alignment
Forum. https://www.alignmentforum.org/posts/JvZhhzycHu2Yd57RN/causal-scrubbing-a-method-for-rigorously-testing
[13] Sirui Cheng, Siyu Zhang, Jiayi Wu, Muchen Lan, and Yaoru Sun. 2025. FacGPT: An Effective and Efficient Method for Evaluating Knowledge-Based
Visual Question Answering. In Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in
Bioinformatics), Vol. 15359 LNAI. Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH, 201–214. doi:10.1007/978-981-97-9431-7_16
[14] Mehdi Cherti, Romain Beaumont, Ross Wightman, Mitchell Wortsman, Gabriel Ilharco, Cade Gordon, Christoph Schuhmann, Ludwig Schmidt, and
Jenia Jitsev. 2023. Reproducible scaling laws for contrastive language-image learning. In Proceedings of the IEEE Computer Society Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Vol. 2023-June. IEEE Computer Society, 2818–2829. doi:10.1109/CVPR52729.2023.00276
[15] Juhwan Choi, Eunju Lee, Kyohoon Jin, and YoungBin Kim. 2024. GPTs Are Multilingual Annotators for Sequence Generation Tasks. (2 2024).
http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05512
[16] Pablo Corona-Fraga, Aldo Hernandez-Suarez, Gabriel Sanchez-Perez, Linda Karina Toscano-Medina, Hector Perez-Meana, Jose Portillo-Portillo, Jesus
Olivares-Mercado, and Luis Javier García Villalba. 2025. Question–Answer Methodology for Vulnerable Source Code Review via Prototype-Based
Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning. Future Internet 17 (1 2025). Issue 1. doi:10.3390/fi17010033
[17] Cynthia Dwork. 2006. Differential privacy. In International colloquium on automata, languages, and programming. Springer, 1–12.
[18] Nelson Elhage, Tristan Hume, Catherine Olsson, and ... 2022. Toy Models of Superposition. arXiv:2209.10652 (2022).
[19] Mihal Emberton. 2021. Unconscious bias is a human condition. The Permanente Journal 25 (2021), 20–199.
[20] Benjamin Feuer, Robin Tibor Schirrmeister, Valeriia Cherepanova, Chinmay Hegde, Frank Hutter, Micah Goldblum, Niv Cohen, and Colin White.
[n. d.]. TuneTables: Context Optimization for Scalable Prior-Data Fitted Networks. Technical Report. https://github.com/penfever/TuneTables.
[21] Laura Fieback, Jakob Spiegelberg, and Hanno Gottschalk. 2025. MetaToken: Detecting Hallucination in Image Descriptions by Meta Classification.
(3 2025). http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19186
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

31

[22] Patrick Loic Foalem, Foutse Khomh, and Heng Li. 2023. Studying Logging Practice in Machine Learning-based Applications. (1 2023). http:
//arxiv.org/abs/2301.04234
[23] Jibril Frej, Didier Schwab, Jean-Pierre Chevallet, and Univ Grenoble. 2020. MLWIKIR: A Python toolkit for building large-scale Wikipedia-based
Information Retrieval Datasets in Chinese, English, French, Italian, Japanese, Spanish and more. Technical Report. https://github.com/fxsjy/jieba
[24] Gerard Shu Fuhnwi, Matthew Revelle, Bradley Whitaker, and Clemente Izurieta. 2025. Using Large Language Models to Mitigate Human-Induced
Bias in SMS Spam: An Empirical Approach. In 2025 IEEE 4th International Conference on AI in Cybersecurity, ICAIC 2025. Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers Inc. doi:10.1109/ICAIC63015.2025.10848636
[25] Isabella Gagliardi and Maria Teresa Artese. 2023. Ensemble-Based Short Text Similarity: An Easy Approach for Multilingual Datasets Using
Transformers and WordNet in Real-World Scenarios. Big Data and Cognitive Computing 7 (12 2023). Issue 4. doi:10.3390/bdcc7040158
[26] Isabel O Gallegos, Ryan A Rossi, Joe Barrow, Md Mehrab Tanjim, Sungchul Kim, Franck Dernoncourt, Tong Yu, Ruiyi Zhang, and Nesreen K
Ahmed. 2024. Bias and fairness in large language models: A survey. Computational Linguistics 50, 3 (2024), 1097–1179.
[27] Ankush Ramprakash Gautam. [n. d.]. Impact of High Data Quality on LLM Hallucinations. International Journal of Computer Applications 975
([n. d.]), 8887.
[28] Lotem Golany, Filippo Galgani, Maya Mamo, Nimrod Parasol, Omer Vandsburger, Nadav Bar, and Ido Dagan. 2024. Efficient Data Generation for
Source-grounded Information-seeking Dialogs: A Use Case for Meeting Transcripts. (10 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01121
[29] Mara Graziani, Lidia Dutkiewicz, Davide Calvaresi, José Pereira Amorim, Katerina Yordanova, Mor Vered, Rahul Nair, Pedro Henriques Abreu,
Tobias Blanke, Valeria Pulignano, et al. 2023. A global taxonomy of interpretable AI: unifying the terminology for the technical and social sciences.
Artificial intelligence review 56, 4 (2023), 3473–3504.
[30] Luca Gregori, Pasquale Leonardo Lazzaro, Marialaura Lazzaro, Paolo Missier, and Riccardo Torlone. 2025. An LLM-guided platform for multi-granular
collection and management of data provenance: L. Gregori et al. Journal of Big Data 12, 1 (2025), 187.
[31] Xu Gu, Xiaoliang Chen, Peng Lu, Zonggen Li, Yajun Du, and Xianyong Li. 2024. AGCVT-prompt for sentiment classification: Automatically
generating chain of thought and verbalizer in prompt learning. Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence 132 (6 2024). doi:10.1016/j.engappai.
2024.107907
[32] Honghao Gui, Shuofei Qiao, Jintian Zhang, Hongbin Ye, Mengshu Sun, Lei Liang, Jeff Z. Pan, Huajun Chen, and Ningyu Zhang. 2024. InstructIE: A
Bilingual Instruction-based Information Extraction Dataset. (7 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11527
[33] Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. 2025.
Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948 (2025).
[34] Michael Hanna, Mateusz Piotrowski, Jack Lindsey, and Emmanuel Ameisen. 2025. circuit-tracer. https://github.com/safety-research/circuit-tracer.
The first two authors contributed equally and are listed alphabetically..
[35] Richard Heersmink, Barend de Rooij, María Jimena Clavel Vázquez, and Matteo Colombo. 2024. A phenomenology and epistemology of large
language models: transparency, trust, and trustworthiness. Ethics and Information Technology 26 (9 2024). Issue 3. doi:10.1007/s10676-024-09777-3
[36] Melanie Herschel, Ralf Diestelkämper, and Houssem Ben Lahmar. 2017. A survey on provenance: What for? What form? What from? The VLDB
Journal 26, 6 (2017), 881–906.
[37] Toby D. Hocking, Joseph R. Barr, and Tyler Thatcher. 2022. Interpretable linear models for predicting security vulnerabilities in source code. In
Proceedings - 2022 4th International Conference on Transdisciplinary AI, TransAI 2022. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 149–155.
doi:10.1109/TransAI54797.2022.00032
[38] Bairu Hou, Yujian Liu, Kaizhi Qian, Jacob Andreas, Shiyu Chang, and Yang Zhang. 2024. Decomposing Uncertainty for Large Language Models
through Input Clarification Ensembling. (6 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08718
[39] Cheng-Hsun Hsueh, Paul Kuo-Ming Huang, Tzu-Han Lin, Che-Wei Liao, Hung-Chieh Fang, Chao-Wei Huang, and Yun-Nung Chen. 2024.
Editing the Mind of Giants: An In-Depth Exploration of Pitfalls of Knowledge Editing in Large Language Models. arXiv:2406.01436 [cs.CL]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01436
[40] Rui Hu, Zheng Yan, Wenxiu Ding, and Laurence T Yang. 2020. A survey on data provenance in IoT. World Wide Web 23, 2 (2020), 1441–1463.
[41] Baixiang Huang, Canyu Chen, and Kai Shu. 2025. Authorship attribution in the era of llms: Problems, methodologies, and challenges. ACM SIGKDD
Explorations Newsletter 26, 2 (2025), 21–43.
[42] Lei Huang, Xiaocheng Feng, Weitao Ma, Liang Zhao, Yuchun Fan, Weihong Zhong, Dongliang Xu, Qing Yang, Hongtao Liu, and Bing Qin. 2024.
Advancing Large Language Model Attribution through Self-Improving. (10 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13298
[43] Arash Iranfar, Mohammad Soleymannejad, Behzad Moshiri, Hamid D Taghi, and Hamid D Taghirad. [n. d.]. Highlights Natural Language Processing
and Soft Data for Motor Skill As-sessment: A Case Study in Surgical Training Simulations Natural Language Processing and Soft Data for Motor Skill
Assessment: A Case Study in Surgical Training Simulations. Technical Report. https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936534
[44] Rishab Jain and Aditya Jain. 2023. Generative AI in Writing Research Papers: A New Type of Algorithmic Bias and Uncertainty in Scholarly Work.
(12 2023). http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10057
[45] Shipra Jain, Sreya Dey, Prateek Bajaj, and A. S. Rohit Kumar. 2021. A Data-Centric Approach Towards Deducing Bias in Artificial Intelligence
Systems for Textual Contexts. In Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in
Bioinformatics), Vol. 13029 LNAI. Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH, 323–333. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-88483-3_25
[46] Ziwei Ji, Delong Chen, Etsuko Ishii, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Yejin Bang, Bryan Wilie, and Pascale Fung. 2024. LLM Internal States Reveal Hallucination
Risk Faced With a Query. (9 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.03282
Manuscript submitted to ACM

32

Hohensinner et al.

[47] Emily Jiang, Alice Chen, Irene Tenison, and Lalana Kagal. 2024. MediRAG: Secure Question Answering for Healthcare Data. In Proceedings - 2024
IEEE International Conference on Big Data, BigData 2024. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 6476–6485. doi:10.1109/BigData62323.
2024.10825604
[48] Geewook Kim and Minjoon Seo. 2024. On Efficient Language and Vision Assistants for Visually-Situated Natural Language Understanding: What
Matters in Reading and Reasoning. (10 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11823
[49] Johannes Kirmayr, Lukas Stappen, Phillip Schneider, Florian Matthes, and Elisabeth André. [n. d.]. CarMem: Enhancing Long-Term Memory in LLM
Voice Assistants through Category-Bounding. Technical Report. 343–357 pages. https://github.com/johanneskirmayr/CarMem.
[50] Myeongseob Ko, Feiyang Kang, Weiyan Shi, Ming Jin, Zhou Yu, and Ruoxi Jia. 2024. The Mirrored Influence Hypothesis: Efficient Data Influence
Estimation by Harnessing Forward Passes. (6 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08922
[51] Yanis Labrak, Adrien Bazoge, Emmanuel Morin, Pierre-Antoine Gourraud, Mickael Rouvier, and Richard Dufour. 2024. BioMistral: A Collection
of Open-Source Pretrained Large Language Models for Medical Domains. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024,
Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Bangkok, Thailand, 5848–5864. doi:10.18653/
v1/2024.findings-acl.348
[52] Ke Li, Sheng Hong, Cai Fu, Yunhe Zhang, and Ming Liu. 2023. Discriminating Human-authored from ChatGPT-Generated Code Via Discernable
Feature Analysis. In Proceedings - 2023 IEEE 34th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering Workshop, ISSREW 2023. Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 120–127. doi:10.1109/ISSREW60843.2023.00059
[53] Yufei Li, Xiao Yu, Yanghong Guo, Yanchi Liu, Haifeng Chen, Cong Liu, Uc Riverside, Stellar Cyber, Ut Dallas, and Nec Labs America. [n. d.].
Distantly-Supervised Joint Extraction with Noise-Robust Learning. Technical Report. 10202–10217 pages. https://github.com/yul091/
[54] Jack Lindsey, Wes Gurnee, Emmanuel Ameisen, Brian Chen, Adam Pearce, Nicholas L. Turner, Craig Citro, David Abrahams, Shan Carter, Basil
Hosmer, Jonathan Marcus, Michael Sklar, Adly Templeton, Trenton Bricken, Callum McDougall, Hoagy Cunningham, Thomas Henighan, Adam
Jermyn, Andy Jones, Andrew Persic, Zhenyi Qi, T. Ben Thompson, Sam Zimmerman, Kelley Rivoire, Thomas Conerly, Chris Olah, and Joshua
Batson. 2025. On the Biology of a Large Language Model. Transformer Circuits Thread (2025). https://transformer-circuits.pub/2025/attributiongraphs/biology.html
[55] Jiacheng Liu, Taylor Blanton, Yanai Elazar, Sewon Min, YenSung Chen, Arnavi Chheda-Kothary, Huy Tran, Byron Bischoff, Eric Marsh, Michael
Schmitz, Cassidy Trier, Aaron Sarnat, Jenna James, Jon Borchardt, Bailey Kuehl, Evie Cheng, Karen Farley, Sruthi Sreeram, Taira Anderson, David
Albright, Carissa Schoenick, Luca Soldaini, Dirk Groeneveld, Rock Yuren Pang, Pang Wei Koh, Noah A. Smith, Sophie Lebrecht, Yejin Choi,
Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Ali Farhadi, and Jesse Dodge. 2025. OLMoTrace: Tracing Language Model Outputs Back to Trillions of Training Tokens.
arXiv:2504.07096 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07096
[56] Yilun Liu, Shimin Tao, Weibin Meng, Jingyu Wang, Wenbing Ma, Yanqing Zhao, Yuhang Chen, Hao Yang, Yanfei Jiang, and Xun Chen. 2024.
Interpretable Online Log Analysis Using Large Language Models with Prompt Strategies. (1 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.07610
[57] Yibo Liu, Haisu Zhang, Teng Zong, Jianping Wu, and Wei Dai. 2023. Knowledge Base Question Answering via Semantic Analysis. Electronics
(Switzerland) 12 (10 2023). Issue 20. doi:10.3390/electronics12204224
[58] Shayne Longpre, Robert Mahari, Anthony Chen, Naana Obeng-Marnu, Damien Sileo, William Brannon, Niklas Muennighoff, Nathan Khazam,
Jad Kabbara, Kartik Perisetla, Xinyi Wu, Enrico Shippole, Kurt Bollacker, Tongshuang Wu, Luis Villa, Sandy Pentland, and Sara Hooker. 2024. A
large-scale audit of dataset licensing and attribution in AI. Nature Machine Intelligence 6 (8 2024), 975–987. Issue 8. doi:10.1038/s42256-024-00878-8
[59] Yuze Lou, Chuan Lei, Xiao Qin, Zichen Wang, Christos Faloutsos, Rishita Anubhai, and Huzefa Rangwala. [n. d.]. DATALORE: can a large language
model find all lost scrolls in a data repository? Technical Report. https://openai.com/research/gpt-4
[60] Jiaying Lu, Wenjing Ma, Jiaming Shen, Steffen Staab, Bo Xiong, and Carl Yang. 2023. HiPrompt: Few-Shot Biomedical Knowledge Fusion via
Hierarchy-Oriented Prompting. In SIGIR 2023 - Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in
Information Retrieval. Association for Computing Machinery, Inc, 2052–2056. doi:10.1145/3539618.3591997
[61] Yu Lu, Deliang Wang, Qinggang Meng, and Penghe Chen. 2020. Towards Interpretable Deep Learning Models for Knowledge Tracing. (5 2020).
http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.06139
[62] Jeffrey Jian Ma, Hengzhi Pei, Leonard Lausen, and George Karypis. 2025. Understanding Silent Data Corruption in LLM Training. In Proceedings of
the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), Wanxiang Che, Joyce Nabende, Ekaterina Shutova,
and Mohammad Taher Pilehvar (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Vienna, Austria, 20372–20394. doi:10.18653/v1/2025.acl-long.996
[63] Xiaoye Ma, Weiheng Liu, Changyi Zhao, and Liliya R. Tukhvatulina. 2025. Can Large Language Model Predict Employee Atrition?. In Proceedings
of 2024 5th International Conference on Computer Science and Management Technology, ICCSMT 2024. Association for Computing Machinery, Inc,
1164–1172. doi:10.1145/3708036.3708229
[64] Kincaid Macdonald, Ajai Ruparelia, Boomer Rogers, Adonis Bovell, and Branden Stone. 2024. Binary Malware Attribution using LLM Embeddings
and Topological Data Analysis. Technical Report.
[65] Pascal Meunier. 2008. Software transparency and purity. Commun. ACM 51, 2 (Feb. 2008), 104. doi:10.1145/1314215.1314232
[66] Shubhanshu Mishra and Jana Diesner. [n. d.]. PyTAIL: An Open Source Tool for Interactive and Incremental Learning of NLP Models with Human
in the Loop for Online Data. ([n. d.]), 190. doi:10.5281/zenodo.7236429
[67] Kamila Misiejuk, Rogers Kaliisa, and Jennifer Scianna. 2024. Augmenting assessment with AI coding of online student discourse: A question of
reliability. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence 6 (6 2024). doi:10.1016/j.caeai.2024.100216
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

33

[68] Sedir Mohammed, Lukas Budach, Moritz Feuerpfeil, Nina Ihde, Andrea Nathansen, Nele Noack, Hendrik Patzlaff, Felix Naumann, and Hazar
Harmouch. 2025. The effects of data quality on machine learning performance on tabular data. Information Systems 132 (2025), 102549. doi:10.
1016/j.is.2025.102549
[69] Mehrad Moradshahi, Victoria Tsai, Giovanni Campagna, and Monica S Lam. [n. d.]. Contextual Semantic Parsing for Multilingual Task-Oriented
Dialogues. Technical Report. 902–915 pages. https://github.com/stanford-oval/
[70] John X. Morris, Chawin Sitawarin, Chuan Guo, Narine Kokhlikyan, G. Edward Suh, Alexander M. Rush, Kamalika Chaudhuri, and Saeed Mahloujifar.
2025. How much do language models memorize? arXiv:2505.24832 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.24832
[71] Raza Mukhlis, Saied Saleem, Hyunwook Kwon, Jamil Hussain, Ahmet Arif Aydin, and Mugahed A. Al-Antari. 2024. A Novel CAD Framework with
Visual and Textual Interpretability: Multimodal Insights for Predicting Respiratory Diseases. In 8th International Artificial Intelligence and Data
Processing Symposium, IDAP 2024. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. doi:10.1109/IDAP64064.2024.10710824
[72] Eirini Ntoutsi, Pavlos Fafalios, Ujwal Gadiraju, Vasileios Iosifidis, Wolfgang Nejdl, Maria-Esther Vidal, Salvatore Ruggieri, Franco Turini, Symeon
Papadopoulos, Emmanouil Krasanakis, et al. 2020. Bias in data-driven artificial intelligence systems—An introductory survey. Wiley Interdisciplinary
Reviews: Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 10, 3 (2020), e1356.
[73] Paulinus Ofem, Bassey Isong, and Francis Lugayizi. 2022. On the Concept of Transparency: A Systematic Literature Review. IEEE Access 10 (2022),
89887–89914. doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3200487
[74] Bofeng Pan, Natalia Stakhanova, and Suprio Ray. 2023. Data provenance in security and privacy. Comput. Surveys 55, 14s (2023), 1–35.
[75] Liang Pang, Kangxi Wu, Sunhao Dai, Zihao Wei, Zenghao Duan, Jia Gu, Xiang Li, Zhiyi Yin, Jun Xu, Huawei Shen, et al. 2025. Large Language
Model Sourcing: A Survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.10161 (2025).
[76] Dario Pasquini, Evgenios M Kornaropoulos, and Giuseppe Ateniese. 2025. { LLMmap } : Fingerprinting for large language models. In 34th USENIX
Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25). 299–318.
[77] Nilay Patel, Shivashankar Subramanian, Siddhant Garg, Meta Ai, Pratyay Banerjee, and Amita Misra Amazon. [n. d.]. Towards Improved Multi-Source
Attribution for Long-Form Answer Generation. Technical Report. 3906–3919 pages. https://www.politifact.com/
[78] Cristiano Patrício, Luís F. Teixeira, and João C. Neves. 2025. A two-step concept-based approach for enhanced interpretability and trust in skin
lesion diagnosis. Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal 28 (1 2025), 71–79. doi:10.1016/j.csbj.2025.02.013
[79] Guilherme Penedo, Hynek Kydlíček, Loubna Ben Allal, Anton Lozhkov, Margaret Mitchell, Colin Raffel, Leandro Von Werra, and Thomas Wolf.
2024. The FineWeb datasets: decanting the web for the finest text data at scale. In Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems (Vancouver, BC, Canada) (NIPS ’24). Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, Article 970, 39 pages.
[80] Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan, Tim Salimans, Ilya Sutskever, et al. 2018. Improving language understanding by generative pre-training. (2018).
[81] Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, Ilya Sutskever, et al. 2019. Language models are unsupervised multitask
learners. OpenAI blog 1, 8 (2019), 9.
[82] Arunprasath Shankar LexisNexis Raleigh and Venkata Nagaraju Buddarapu LexisNexis Raleigh. [n. d.]. Legal Query Reformulation using Deep
Learning. Technical Report.
[83] Sabbir M. Rashid, James P. McCusker, Paulo Pinheiro, Marcello P. Bax, Henrique O. Santos, Jeanette A. Stingone, Amar K. Das, and Deborah L.
McGuinness. 2020. The semantic data dictionary – an approach for describing and annotating data. Data Intelligence 2 (10 2020), 443–486. Issue 4.
doi:10.1162/dint_a_00058
[84] Hannah Rashkin, Vitaly Nikolaev, Matthew Lamm, Lora Aroyo, Michael Collins, Dipanjan Das, Slav Petrov, Gaurav Singh Tomar, Iulia Turc, and
David Reitter. 2022. Measuring Attribution in Natural Language Generation Models. (8 2022). http://arxiv.org/abs/2112.12870
[85] Rahul Ravi, Gouri Ginde, and Jon Rokne. 2024. PRAGyan – Connecting the Dots in Tweets. (7 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.13909
[86] Adam Roberts, Hyung Won Chung, Anselm Levskaya, Gaurav Mishra, James Bradbury, Daniel Andor, Sharan Narang, Brian Lester, Colin Gaffney,
Afroz Mohiuddin, Curtis Hawthorne, Aitor Lewkowycz, Alex Salcianu, Marc van Zee, Jacob Austin, Sebastian Goodman, Livio Baldini Soares,
Haitang Hu, Sasha Tsvyashchenko, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Jasmijn Bastings, Jannis Bulian, Xavier Garcia, Jianmo Ni, Andrew Chen, Kathleen
Kenealy, Jonathan H. Clark, Stephan Lee, Dan Garrette, James Lee-Thorp, Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Marvin Ritter, Maarten Bosma, Alexandre
Passos, Jeremy Maitin-Shepard, Noah Fiedel, Mark Omernick, Brennan Saeta, Ryan Sepassi, Alexander Spiridonov, Joshua Newlan, and Andrea
Gesmundo. 2022. Scaling Up Models and Data with {𝑡 5𝑥 } and {𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑖𝑜 } . (3 2022). http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.17189
[87] Daniel Rodriguez-Cardenas, David N. Palacio, Dipin Khati, Henry Burke, and Denys Poshyvanyk. 2023. Benchmarking Causal Study to Interpret
Large Language Models for Source Code. (8 2023). http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12415
[88] Tommaso Ruga, Eugenio Vocaturo, and Ester Zumpano. 2024. On the Role of LLM to Forecast the Next Pandemic. In Proceedings - 2024
IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine, BIBM 2024. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 6567–6573.
doi:10.1109/BIBM62325.2024.10822835
[89] June Sallou, Thomas Durieux, and Annibale Panichella. 2024. Breaking the Silence: the Threats of Using LLMs in Software Engineering. In
Proceedings - International Conference on Software Engineering. IEEE Computer Society, 102–106. doi:10.1145/3639476.3639764
[90] Abeed Sarker and Graciela Gonzalez-Hernandez. 2018. An unsupervised and customizable misspelling generator for mining noisy health-related
text sources. Journal of Biomedical Informatics 88 (12 2018), 98–107. doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2018.11.007
[91] Syed Jawad Hussain Shah, Ahmed Albishri, Rong Wang, and Yugyung Lee. 2025. Integrating local and global attention mechanisms for enhanced
oral cancer detection and explainability. Computers in Biology and Medicine 189 (5 2025). doi:10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.109841
Manuscript submitted to ACM

34

Hohensinner et al.

[92] Fatemeh Shah-Mohammadi and Joseph Finkelstein. 2024. Toward Automated Meta-Analysis: Leveraging Large Language Model-Driven Outcome
Alignment and Data Extraction. In Proceedings of the 2024 IEEE 6th Eurasia Conference on Biomedical Engineering, Healthcare and Sustainability,
ECBIOS 2024. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 482–487. doi:10.1109/ECBIOS61468.2024.10885505
[93] Zejiang Shen, Kyle Lo, Lauren Yu, Nathan Dahlberg, Margo Schlanger, and Doug Downey. [n. d.]. Multi-LexSum: Real-World Summaries of Civil
Rights Lawsuits at Multiple Granularities. Technical Report. https://multilexsum.github.io.
[94] Yogesh L Simmhan, Beth Plale, and Dennis Gannon. 2005. A survey of data provenance in e-science. ACM Sigmod Record 34, 3 (2005), 31–36.
[95] Yogesh L Simmhan, Beth Plale, Dennis Gannon, et al. 2005. A survey of data provenance techniques. Computer Science Department, Indiana
University, Bloomington IN 47405 (2005), 69.
[96] Jie Song, George Alter, and H. V. Jagadish. 2022. Structured data transformation algebra (SDTA) and its applications. Distributed and Parallel
Databases 40 (9 2022), 373–408. Issue 2-3. doi:10.1007/s10619-022-07418-6
[97] Tianhang Song, Haolei Hu, Xinxin Chen, and Kangli Zi. 2024. Leveraging Slot-Aware Enhancements for Improved Zero-Shot Dialogue State
Tracking. In 2024 6th International Conference on Frontier Technologies of Information and Computer, ICFTIC 2024. Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers Inc., 783–788. doi:10.1109/ICFTIC64248.2024.10913312
[98] Yiheng Su, Junyi Jessy Li, and Matthew Lease. [n. d.]. Wrapper Boxes: Faithful Attribution of Model Predictions to Training Data. Technical Report.
[99] Haoran Sun, Renren Jin, Shaoyang Xu, Leiyu Pan, Supryadi, Menglong Cui, Jiangcun Du, Yikun Lei, Lei Yang, Ling Shi, Juesi Xiao, Shaolin Zhu,
and Deyi Xiong. 2024. FuxiTranyu: A Multilingual Large Language Model Trained with Balanced Data. (10 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06273
[100] Yiding Sun, Feng Wang, Yutao Zhu, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Jiaxin Mao. 2024. An Integrated Data Processing Framework for Pretraining Foundation
Models. In SIGIR 2024 - Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval. Association
for Computing Machinery, Inc, 2713–2718. doi:10.1145/3626772.3657671
[101] Rohan Taori and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto. 2022. Data Feedback Loops: Model-driven Amplification of Dataset Biases. (9 2022). http://arxiv.org/abs/
2209.03942
[102] Gemma Team et al. 2024. Gemma: Open Models Based on Gemini Research and Technology. arXiv:2403.08295 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.
08295
[103] Kimi Team et al. 2025. Kimi K2: Open Agentic Intelligence. arXiv:2507.20534 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.20534
[104] Danielle R. Thomas, Conrad Borchers, Sanjit Kakarla, Jionghao Lin, Shambhavi Bhushan, Boyuan Guo, Erin Gatz, and Kenneth R. Koedinger. 2025.
Does Multiple Choice Have a Future in the Age of Generative AI? A Posttest-only RCT. In 15th International Conference on Learning Analytics and
Knowledge, LAK 2025. Association for Computing Machinery, Inc, 494–504. doi:10.1145/3706468.3706530
[105] Mustafa Burak Topal, Aysun Bozanta, and Ayşe Başar. 2025. How do LLMs perform on Turkish? A multi-faceted multi-prompt evaluation. Expert
Systems with Applications 279 (6 2025). doi:10.1016/j.eswa.2025.127421
[106] Jason Tsay, Alan Braz, Martin Hirzel, Avraham Shinnar, and Todd Mummert. 2022. Extracting enhanced artificial intelligence model metadata from
software repositories. Empirical Software Engineering 27 (12 2022). Issue 7. doi:10.1007/s10664-022-10206-6
[107] Luís Valina, Brígida Teixeira, Arsénio Reis, Zita Vale, and Tiago Pinto. 2024. Explainable Artificial Intelligence for Deep Synthetic Data Generation
Models. In Proceedings - 2024 IEEE Conference on Artificial Intelligence, CAI 2024. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 555–556.
doi:10.1109/CAI59869.2024.00109
[108] Lin Wang, Lanting Fang, and Yining Hu. 2025. A dynamic provenance graph-based detector for advanced persistent threats. Expert Systems with
Applications 265 (2025), 125877. doi:10.1016/j.eswa.2024.125877
[109] Tianyang Wang, Yunze Wang, Jun Zhou, Benji Peng, Xinyuan Song, Charles Zhang, Xintian Sun, Qian Niu, Junyu Liu, Silin Chen, et al. 2025. From
aleatoric to epistemic: Exploring uncertainty quantification techniques in artificial intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.03282 (2025).
[110] Xinchen Wang, Ruida Hu, Cuiyun Gao, Xin-Cheng Wen, Yujia Chen, and Qing Liao. 2024. ReposVul: A Repository-Level High-Quality Vulnerability
Dataset. (2 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13169
[111] Qiuhong Wei, Zhengxiong Yao, Ying Cui, Bo Wei, Zhezhen Jin, and Ximing Xu. 2024. Evaluation of ChatGPT-generated medical responses: A
systematic review and meta-analysis. doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2024.104620
[112] Karl Werder, Balasubramaniam Ramesh, and Rongen (Sophia) Zhang. 2022. Establishing Data Provenance for Responsible Artificial Intelligence
Systems. ACM Trans. Manage. Inf. Syst. 13, 2, Article 22 (March 2022), 23 pages. doi:10.1145/3503488
[113] Lowri Williams, Eirini Anthi, Laura Arman, and Pete Burnap. 2024. Topic Modelling: Going beyond Token Outputs. Big Data and Cognitive
Computing 8 (5 2024). Issue 5. doi:10.3390/bdcc8050044
[114] Bicheng Xu, Rong Peng, Yongchang Ding, and Lin Fang. 2024. An interpretable logic KBQA method based on open-source large language models.
In Proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering, SEKE. Knowledge Systems Institute Graduate
School, 140–145. doi:10.18293/SEKE2024-138
[115] Ran Xu, Wenqi Shi, Yue Yu, Yuchen Zhuang, Yanqiao Zhu, May D. Wang, Joyce C. Ho, Chao Zhang, and Carl Yang. 2024. BMRetriever: Tuning
Large Language Models as Better Biomedical Text Retrievers. (10 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18443
[116] Annepaka Yadagiri, Dimpal Kalita, Abhishek Ranjan, Ashish Kumar Bostan, Parthib Toppo, and Partha Pakray. 2024. Team cnlp-nits-pp at PAN:
Leveraging BERT for Accurate Authorship Verification: A Novel Approach to Textual Attribution Notebook for the PAN Lab at CLEF 2024. Technical
Report.
[117] Jingyuan Yang, Dapeng Chen, Yajing Sun, Rongjun Li, Zhiyong Feng, and Wei Peng. 2025. Enhancing Semantic Consistency of Large Language
Models through Model Editing: An Interpretability-Oriented Approach. (1 2025). http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.11041
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Tracing the Data Trail: A Survey of Data Provenance, Transparency and Traceability in LLMs

35

[118] Kailai Yang, Tianlin Zhang, Ziyan Kuang, Qianqian Xie, Jimin Huang, and Sophia Ananiadou. [n. d.]. MentaLLaMA: Interpretable Mental Health
Analysis on Social Media with Large Language Models. Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024 (WWW ’24), May 13â•fi17, 2024, Singapore,
Singapore 1 ([n. d.]), 2024. doi:10.1145/3589334.3648137
[119] Yuning Yang, Zilong Hou, Yansong Wang, Hongli Ma, Pingping Sun, Zhiqiang Ma, Ka Chun Wong, and Xiangtao Li. 2022. HCRNet: High-throughput
circRNA-binding event identification from CLIP-seq data using deep temporal convolutional network. Briefings in Bioinformatics 23 (3 2022). Issue
2. doi:10.1093/bib/bbac027
[120] Dansheng Yao, Mengqi Zhu, Hehua Zhu, Wuqiang Cai, and Long Zhou. 2024. Integrating synthetic datasets with CLIP semantic insights for single
image localization advancements. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 218 (12 2024), 198–213. doi:10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2024.10.027
[121] Pei Gen Ye, Zhengdao Li, Zuopeng Yang, Pengyu Chen, Zhenxin Zhang, Ning Li, and Jun Zheng. 2025. Periodic watermarking for copyright
protection of large language models in cloud computing security. Computer Standards and Interfaces 94 (8 2025). doi:10.1016/j.csi.2025.103983
[122] Yunhu Ye, Binyuan Hui, Min Yang, Binhua Li, Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2023. Large Language Models are Versatile Decomposers: Decomposing
Evidence and Questions for Table-based Reasoning. In SIGIR 2023 - Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval. Association for Computing Machinery, Inc, 174–184. doi:10.1145/3539618.3591708
[123] Tong Yu, Wenhui Fu, Doneming Dai, Kunli Zhang, and Yu Song. 2024. Research on Intelligent Diagnosis Integrating Disease Subgraph and Large
Language Model. In 2024 3rd International Conference on Cloud Computing, Big Data Application and Software Engineering, CBASE 2024. Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 557–562. doi:10.1109/CBASE64041.2024.10824535
[124] Xiaohan Yu, Li Zhang, and Chong Chen. 2024. Explainable CTR Prediction via LLM Reasoning. (12 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02588
[125] Hao Yuan, Parker Hicks, Mansooreh Ahmadian, Kayla A. Johnson, Lydia Valtadoros, and Arjun Krishnan. 2025. Annotating publicly-available
samples and studies using interpretable modeling of unstructured metadata. Briefings in Bioinformatics 26 (1 2025). Issue 1. doi:10.1093/bib/bbae652
[126] Yuqian Yuan, Wentong Li, Jian Liu, Dongqi Tang, Xinjie Luo, Chi Qin, Lei Zhang, and Jianke Zhu. 2024. Osprey: Pixel Understanding with Visual
Instruction Tuning. (3 2024). http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10032
[127] Guillaume Zambrano. 2024. Case Law as Data: Prompt Engineering Strategies for Case Outcome Extraction with Large Language Models in a
Zero-Shot Setting. Law, Technology and Humans 6 (2024), 80–101. Issue 3. doi:10.5204/lthj.3623
[128] Bowen Zhang, Daijun Ding, Zhichao Huang, Ang Li, Yangyang Li, Baoquan Zhang, and Hu Huang. 2024. Knowledge-Augmented Interpretable
Network for Zero-Shot Stance Detection on Social Media. IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems (2024). doi:10.1109/TCSS.2024.3388723
[129] Haodi Zhang, Jiahong Li, Yichi Wang, and Yuanfeng Songi. 2023. Integrating Automated Knowledge Extraction with Large Language Models
for Explainable Medical Decision-Making. In Proceedings - 2023 2023 IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine, BIBM 2023.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., 1710–1717. doi:10.1109/BIBM58861.2023.10385557
[130] Zhu Zhang, Jie Yuan, and Amulya Gupta. 2024. Let the Laser Beam Connect the Dots: Forecasting and Narrating Stock Market Volatility. INFORMS
Journal on Computing 36 (11 2024), 1400–1416. Issue 6. doi:10.1287/ijoc.2022.0055
[131] Yilun Zhao, Lyuhao Chen, Arman Cohan, and Chen Zhao. [n. d.]. TAPERA: Enhancing Faithfulness and Interpretability in Long-Form Table QA by
Content Planning and Execution-based Reasoning. Technical Report. 12824–12840 pages. https://github.com/yilunzhao/TaPERA
[132] Xuanhe Zhou, Junxuan He, Wei Zhou, Haodong Chen, Zirui Tang, Haoyu Zhao, Xin Tong, Guoliang Li, Youmin Chen, Jun Zhou, et al. 2025. A
Survey of LLM × DATA. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.18458 (2025).
[133] Jie Zhu, Yun Miao, Tingting Xu, Junwu Zhu, and Xiaolei Sun. 2024. On the Effectiveness of Large Language Models in Statement-level Code
Summarization. In IEEE International Conference on Software Quality, Reliability and Security, QRS. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Inc., 216–227. doi:10.1109/QRS62785.2024.00030

Manuscript submitted to ACM

