arXiv:2601.14971v1 [cs.LG] 21 Jan 2026

Fine-Grained Traceability for Transparent ML Pipelines
Liping Chen

Mujie Liu

Haytham Fayek∗

RMIT University
Melbourne, VIC, Australia
lp.chen@ieee.org

Federation University Australia
Ballarat, VIC, Australia
mujie.liu@ieee.org

RMIT University
Melbourne, VIC, Australia
haytham.fayek@ieee.org

Abstract

1

Modern machine learning systems are increasingly realised as multistage pipelines, yet existing transparency mechanisms typically
operate at a model level: they describe what a system is and why it
behaves as it does, but not how individual data samples are operationally recorded, tracked, and verified as they traverse the pipeline.
This absence of verifiable, sample-level traceability leaves practitioners and users unable to determine whether a specific sample
was used, when it was processed, or whether the corresponding
records remain intact over time. We introduce FG-Trac, a modelagnostic framework that establishes verifiable, fine-grained samplelevel traceability throughout machine learning pipelines. FG-Trac
defines an explicit mechanism for capturing and verifying sample lifecycle events across preprocessing and training, computes
contribution scores explicitly grounded in training checkpoints,
and anchors these traces to tamper-evident cryptographic commitments. The framework integrates without modifying model
architectures or training objectives, reconstructing complete and
auditable data-usage histories with practical computational overhead. Experiments on a canonical convolutional neural network
and a multimodal graph learning pipeline demonstrate that FG-Trac
preserves predictive performance while enabling machine learning
systems to furnish verifiable evidence of how individual samples
were used and propagated during model execution.

Modern machine learning systems are no longer defined solely by
model architectures, but by complex, multi-stage pipelines whose
behaviour emerges from data ingestion, preprocessing, batching,
gradient computation, checkpointing, and deployment [24]. These
pipelines govern how data flows, how representations are learned,
and how predictions are produced, yet their complexity obscures
the involvement of individual samples in these processes. Crucially,
current machine learning pipelines lack operational transparency
at the sample level: there is no principled mechanism to determine what happens to each data point as it traverses these stages.
Although every training sample participates directly in these operations and shapes the final model, existing pipelines offer virtually no
visibility into how individual samples are consumed, transformed,
or propagated [18, 26]. In practice, there is no reliable record of
when a sample was used, which updates it influenced, or whether
it contributed to a specific prediction [9].
This absence of verifiable, sample-level traceability is not a usability issue, but a structural limitation. It undermines accountability,
hinders post-hoc forensic reconstruction, and prevents practitioners
from verifying lawful data usage, particularly in regulated domains
such as healthcare, finance, and security [10, 19]. While not all
machine learning applications require such guarantees, pipelines
in high-risk domains cannot be deployed responsibly without them.
This motivates a systematic solution for sample-level traceability
that is independent of any specific model architecture.
Prior work on influence estimation offers partial proxies for understanding how individual samples affect model outputs. Methods
such as Influence Functions [13], TracIn and TracInCP [21], and
Data Shapley [12] estimate the marginal contribution of training
examples to predictions. However, these approaches do not provide
operational or verifiable sample-level traceability grounded in the
actual execution of the machine learning pipeline, for three reasons:
(i) They operate entirely outside the training pipeline, producing
estimates that cannot be validated against the actual optimisation
trajectory of the model or the proper sequence of sample usage. (ii)
They return isolated scalar scores that provide little temporal or
semantic context, offering no insight into when, where, or through
which checkpoints a sample supported or opposed a prediction [13].
(iii) They lack integrity guarantees: their outputs can be regenerated,
modified, or selectively omitted without evidence, and no verifiable record ties influence values to concrete training events [24].
Consequently, existing estimators function as retrospective explanations rather than verifiable operational records and cannot satisfy
accountability requirements in regulated or high-stakes pipelines.
They quantify influence, but do not constitute a mechanism for
traceability and cannot operationalise accountability in machine
learning systems.

CCS Concepts
• Security and privacy → Hash functions and commitment
schemes; • Computing methodologies → Machine learning.

Keywords
Sample-level traceability, Machine learning pipelines, Verifiable
data usage
ACM Reference Format:
Liping Chen, Mujie Liu, and Haytham Fayek. 2026. Fine-Grained Traceability
for Transparent ML Pipelines. In Proceedings of The Web Conference 2026
(WWW ’26). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/
nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn

∗ Corresponding author.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
WWW ’26, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
© 2026 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YYYY/MM
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn

Introduction

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

To address this, we introduce FG-Trac, a fine-grained, modelagnostic framework that provides verifiable, end-to-end samplelevel traceability throughout the machine learning pipeline. FG-Trac
is designed to address the above limitations through three aligned
capabilities. (i) It instruments the pipeline to record sample-level
lifecycle events, including preprocessing, batching, gradient computation, and evaluation, ensuring that influence assessments are
grounded in the model’s actual execution rather than retrospective
approximations. (ii) It computes structured, checkpoint-resolved
influence scores via a pipeline-integrated variant of TracInCP, producing temporally indexed traces that capture how each sample
contributes, positively or negatively, across the course of training.
(iii) It aggregates all sample-level events and influence traces into
Merkle-root digests anchored to an immutable ledger, providing
tamper-evident integrity and auditability that prior estimators fundamentally lack. Notably, FG-Trac is a plug-and-play module that
can be integrated into diverse machine learning pipelines with
minimal modification. It provides verifiable, sample-level traceability throughout machine learning pipelines, across model classes,
datasets, and application domains, thereby complementing rather
than replacing existing influence estimators. Experiments across
heterogeneous training settings demonstrate its broad applicability,
while evaluations on two real-world medical datasets confirm its
ability to provide reliable, fine-grained sample-level provenance.
On these medical datasets, FG-Trac not only preserves baseline
predictive performance but also enables machine learning systems
to answer operational questions that were previously inaccessible:
Which samples were used and when? How did they affect the model’s
behaviour? Can their influence be independently verified? Our main
contributions can be summarised as follows:
• We formalise the problem of operational, verifiable samplelevel traceability and introduce FG-Trac, a general framework that couples provenance tracking directly with machine learning pipeline execution, clarifying what must be
recorded and validated to capture how samples are used and
how they influence model updates.
• We design a verifiable, tamper-evident influence estimation
mechanism by integrating a structured, checkpoint-resolved
variant of TracInCP and securing all sample-level events
with Merkle-root digests anchored to an immutable ledger.
• We demonstrate FG-Trac’s generality and practicality through
representative evaluations on heterogeneous machine learning pipelines and two real-world medical datasets, showing
preserved predictive performance and reliable sample-level
provenance.

2 Related Work
2.1 Transparency Artefacts for Machine
Learning Systems
Recent work has advanced transparency in machine learning by
documenting how models, datasets, and pipelines should be reported and contextualised. Model Cards [17] formalise disclosure
around model usage, evaluation protocols, and demographic considerations. Data Cards [22] complement this by documenting dataset
provenance, curation decisions, and transformation workflows. Use
Case Cards [11] broaden the scope to deployment contexts and

Chen et al.

operational risks, reflecting the increasing importance of governance beyond model performance. DAG Cards [29] extend this paradigm to pipeline-level structure and behavioural testing, marking
a shift from model-centric to pipeline-centric transparency practices. These artefacts expand what can be made visible in machine
learning systems, yet they primarily describe system configurations
rather than the operational histories of individual samples as they
flow through pipelines.

2.2

Traceability in Machine Learning Systems

Traceability in machine learning is conceptually distinct from explainability. Whereas explainability concerns whether and how a
model’s decisions can be interpreted, traceability addresses whether
the operational use of data within a machine learning pipeline can
be reconstructed [6]. Most existing work on traceability is grounded
in data provenance, documenting how datasets, models, and artefacts are created, transformed, and reused over time. Systems such
as ModelDB [30], PROV-AGENT [25], OpenML [5], and MLflow [7]
exemplify this line of research by recording metadata, configurations, and artefact versions to support reproducibility and pipelinelevel auditing. Beyond lifecycle provenance, related efforts examine
behavioural visibility in specific domains, including interactionlevel logging, event-dependency analysis for security, and semantic
tracing in NLP workflows [2, 16, 31]. Taken together, these approaches improve visibility into pipeline structure and inferencetime behaviour but provide limited insight into how individual
samples participate in optimisation or shape training dynamics.
A related line of work focuses on ensuring the integrity of execution records through verifiable logging mechanisms. Techniques
such as blockchain-based logging, Merkle-tree commitments, and
ledger anchoring [3, 15] guarantee that once records are produced,
they cannot be silently modified or selectively removed, strengthening trust in recorded histories and supporting audit and compliance
requirements. However, these mechanisms primarily address how
records are protected, rather than which operational events must
be captured to enable meaningful traceability. As a result, existing
systems either provide detailed provenance without verifiability
guarantees or enforce immutability over logs that omit sample-level
operational histories, leaving the traceability of model training incomplete at the level of individual data samples.

2.3

Influence and Contribution Estimation

A body of work studies how individual samples affect model predictions. Methods such as Influence Functions [13], TracIn and TracInCP [21], Data Shapley [12], and Representer Point Selection [28]
quantify the importance of training examples by estimating their
marginal contribution to learned parameters or outputs. These approaches offer insight into which samples support or interfere with
specific predictions, and practical variants such as TracInCP make
influence estimation tractable in modern deep learning settings.
However, influence estimation is not designed as an operational
record: values are computed retrospectively and remain decoupled
from when, where, and under which model state samples are used
during training, nor do they support verification against concrete
training events.

Fine-Grained Traceability for Transparent ML Pipelines

3

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

The FG-Trac Framework

FG-Trac operationalises verifiable, sample-level traceability through
system-level instrumentation and auditable logging mechanisms
that integrate directly into a machine learning pipeline. The framework comprises three interconnected components: the Traceable
Module, the Blockchain Module, and the Query Module. Each component addresses a core requirement of accountable, end-to-end
sample tracking. Figure 1 illustrates how FG-Trac aligns these modules with key pipeline stages, from preprocessing (T0 –T1 ) to model
training (T1 –T2 ) and prediction (T2 –T3 ).

3.1

Traceable Module

To address the first question: Which samples were used and when?
We introduce the Traceable Module, which instruments the pipeline
to produce fine-grained, sample-centric operational logs across all
stages (as shown in Figure 1). Rather than logging only coarse
pipeline stages, FG-Trac records five types of operational events:
• User Mapping Log (T0 ). At ingestion time, each user or
subject 𝑢𝑖 is mapped to a pseudonymous identifier
ℎ𝑖 = SHA256(𝑢𝑖 ),

(1)

implemented as Hash_id(𝑢𝑖 ) in our prototype. This log links
internal records to hashed identifiers without storing raw
identities.
• Training Role Log (T0 → T1 ). When the dataset is split, FGTrac records the role of each sample (e.g., training/ validation/
test) together with its pseudonymous identifier. This enables
later queries about how a given sample participated in model
development.
• Modality Attention Log (T1 → T2 ). During model training, FG-Trac optionally records summarised modality-level
attention patterns (e.g., for imaging vs. clinical text in a multimodal graph neural network (GNN)) for each sample or
batch. These logs provide interpretable signals about which
modalities were emphasised when the model saw a given
sample, without storing raw activations.
• Sample Contribution Score Log (T1 → T2 ): At selected optimisation checkpoints, FG-Trac records signed contribution
scores produced by its TracInCP-based [21] estimator (see
below) for relevant pairs of target samples (i.e., queried examples whose predictions are being explained) and training
samples. These records summarise whether each training
sample supports or interferes with target predictions, and
form the core of FG-Trac’s influence-aware traceability.
• Training Action Log (T0 –T3 ). Finally, FG-Trac maintains
a global action log that records timestamps, computational
costs, model versions, and key training events. This log ties
the sample-level records to concrete runs and model states.
Together, these logs provide a fine-grained, sample-centric footprint across preprocessing, training and fine-tuning, and prediction,
which underpins the verifiable traces exposed by the Query Module.
Contribution Estimation. To answer the second introductory
question: How did these samples affect the model’s behaviour? FGTrac integrates a checkpoint-based contribution estimator, TracInCP [21], into the training process. Rather than computing influence along the full optimisation trajectory, FG-Trac evaluates

gradient alignment only at a selected set of discrete checkpoints C,
reducing overhead while preserving interpretability. Let 𝜃𝑐 denote
the model parameters saved at checkpoint 𝑐, and let ℓ (𝜃, 𝑠) be the
loss incurred by sample 𝑠. For a target sample 𝑠𝑖 and a candidate
sample 𝑠 𝑗 , the checkpointed influence score is computed as
∑︁
𝐼 CP (𝑠 𝑗 → 𝑠𝑖 ) =
∇𝜃 ℓ (𝜃𝑐 , 𝑠𝑖 )⊤ ∇𝜃 ℓ (𝜃𝑐 , 𝑠 𝑗 ),
(2)
𝑐∈C

where the gradient inner product measures whether 𝑠 𝑗 supports or
interferes with 𝑠𝑖 across optimisation states. Positive values indicate
that 𝑠 𝑗 pushes the model towards the prediction for 𝑠𝑖 , whereas
negative values imply competitive or adversarial influence.
FG-Trac logs these scores as part of the Sample Contribution
Score Log, binding them to operational checkpoints recorded by the
Traceable Module. This transforms TracInCP from a retrospective
estimator into a verifiable, temporally grounded mechanism for
tracking how samples shape training dynamics.

3.2

Blockchain Module

Operational logs alone do not guarantee accountability. Without a
protection mechanism, logs can be removed, edited, or regenerated
after training, leaving no evidence that a modification occurred.
In high-stakes machine learning systems, this is unacceptable: a
trace is only trustworthy if it cannot be altered secretly. FG-Trac
ensures this property through a lightweight anchoring mechanism
that transforms operational logs into verifiable commitments.
FG-Trac batches logs into a Merkle tree, a hierarchical hashing
structure. Intuitively, this structure works like a digital fingerprint.
Each log entry contributes to the final fingerprint, and even a onebit change anywhere in the logs produces a completely different
fingerprint. Formally, given a log set 𝐿 = {ℓ1, . . . , ℓ𝑚 } and a collisionresistant hash function 𝐻 (·), FG-Trac computes the Merkle root:
𝑟 = 𝐻 Merkle (𝐿).

(3)

The Merkle root 𝑟 acts as a concise, tamper-evident summary of all
logs in 𝐿. Unlike storing logs directly, storing a single hash achieves
two benefits:
• Scalability: the size of 𝑟 itself is constant and does not depend
on how many logs exist.
• Privacy preservation: raw logs remain off-chain; only their
cryptographic fingerprint is public.
It is vital to distinguish between on-chain and off-chain costs.
While the on-chain commitment stores only 𝑟 and therefore remains constant in size, the off-chain ledger that holds the log entries
and intermediate Merkle nodes grows linearly with the number of
recorded events. This separation allows FG-Trac to provide verifiable provenance without pushing large volumes of operational
data to the blockchain.
FG-Trac periodically commits 𝑟 to a blockchain. The blockchain
functions as a public notary: once 𝑟 is recorded, no participant,
including the developer, can overwrite it without leaving a trace,
as each block stores both its own hash and the hash of the previous block. This creates an immutable sequence of commitments.
Changing any log ℓ𝑘 alters its hash, propagates through the Merkle
tree, and produces a different root 𝑟ˆ ≠ 𝑟 , immediately exposing
tampering. Verification requires no trust in the pipeline operator:

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Chen et al.

Figure 1: Overview of the FG-Trac framework.
anyone holding a log entry and its Merkle proof can independently
recompute 𝑟ˆ and verify consistency with the on-chain commitment.
In summary, the blockchain anchoring module converts FGTrac’s operational logs from records that could be edited into evidence that cannot be denied. Without this component, FG-Trac
would provide traceability, but not verifiable traceability.

3.3

The components introduced above operate jointly during pipeline
execution. Algorithm 1 summarises the FG-Trac workflow; detailed
steps are deferred to the appendix for brevity. FG-Trac enables
verifiable, sample-level traceability for machine learning pipelines
whose ingestion, preprocessing, training, and inference stages are
instrumentable and whose training process exposes gradients at
selected checkpoints.

Query Module

To address the third question: Can their influence be independently
verified? FG-Trac introduces a Query Module that enables users
and auditors to validate sample-level logs and contribution scores.
While the Blockchain Module ensures that records are tamperevident, the Query Module operationalises independent verification
by retrieving authorised logs, providing their Merkle proofs, and
recomputing a root hash to verify integrity. Given a pseudonymous
identifier ℎ𝑖 and appropriate authorisation (e.g., a key or access
token), the module performs three steps:
(1) retrieves all logs associated with ℎ𝑖 (user mapping, training
role, training actions, modality attention, contribution scores,
and prediction outcomes),
(2) returns the corresponding Merkle proofs, and
(3) recomputes a root 𝑟ˆ for verification.
Verification succeeds if 𝑟ˆ matches the on-chain commitment 𝑟 .
Upon successful verification, FG-Trac automatically returns the
authorised subset of logs associated with ℎ𝑖 , enabling users to inspect when their data was used, in what role, and how it influenced
model behaviour. If verification fails, the system refuses to release
the queried logs and alerts the user that the trace may have been
tampered with. This enables users and auditors to answer operational questions such as: Was my data used? When, and in what role?
How did it influence model behaviour? Has any log been altered since
it was recorded? The module is agnostic to the underlying model
class and application domain. It applies to convolutional neural
networks (CNNs), multimodal graph neural networks (GNNs), and
other differentiable architectures deployed in high-risk settings.

3.4

Computational Complexity

We analyse the computational overhead introduced by FG-Trac
relative to a standard training pipeline. Let 𝑁 denote the number of
training samples, |C| the number of checkpoints, |𝜃 | the parameter
dimension, and 𝑀 the number of recorded log events. The Traceable
Module introduces 𝑂 (1) logging per sample, yielding 𝑂 (𝑁 ) total
overhead and 𝑂 (𝑀) storage, with small constants since logs store
only identifiers and summary statistics. The contribution estimator
dominates the cost: computing a gradient for a single sample requires 𝑂 (|𝜃 |), and evaluating checkpointed influence scores for 𝐾
target samples scales as 𝑂 (|C| · 𝐾 · 𝑁 · |𝜃 |), where 𝐾 ≪ 𝑁 in practice and |C| is typically small. Provenance anchoring requires 𝑂 (𝐵)
hashing for a batch of 𝐵 logs, while on-chain storage remains 𝑂 (1)
because only the Merkle root is committed; the off-chain ledger
grows as 𝑂 (𝑀). Query verification is lightweight: log retrieval requires 𝑂 (log 𝑀) lookups, and verifying 𝐿𝑖 logs costs 𝑂 (𝐿𝑖 log 𝑀)
via Merkle proofs. As 𝐿𝑖 is typically small, verification overhead
is minimal. Overall, FG-Trac adds linear or logarithmic overhead
to logging, anchoring, and verification, with influence estimation
as the primary computational cost, preserving scalability while
enabling verifiable sample-level traceability.

4

Experiments

This section evaluates FG-Trac as an operational mechanism for verifiable, sample-level traceability in machine learning pipelines. The
evaluation does not target accuracy gains, but examines whether

Fine-Grained Traceability for Transparent ML Pipelines

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Algorithm 1 FG-Trac End-to-End Procedure for Sample-Level
Traceability

Table 1: Summary statistics of datasets used in this study.

Require: Differentiable ML pipeline Π, dataset D, checkpoint set
C (gradients accessible at checkpoints)
Phase 1: Sample Identification and Ingestion (T0 )
1: for sample 𝑠𝑖 ∈ D do
2:
𝑢𝑖 ← GetUserID(𝑠𝑖 )
3:
ℎ𝑖 ← SHA256(𝑢𝑖 )
⊲ Pseudonymous identifier
4:
LogUserMapping(𝑢𝑖 , ℎ𝑖 )
5: end for
Phase 2: Training-Time Instrumentation (T1 → T2 )
6: for epoch 𝑒 in Π.training do
7:
for batch 𝐵 in Π.loader do
8:
HookPreprocess(𝐵)
9:
HookTrainingActions(𝐵)
10:
if Π is multimodal then
11:
HookModalityAttention(𝐵)
12:
end if
13:
end for
14:
if 𝑒 ∈ C then
15:
𝑐 ←𝑒
16:
𝜃𝑐 ← GetCheckpointParams(𝑐)
17:
ComputeContributionScores(𝜃𝑐 )
18:
LogSampleContribution
19:
end if
20: end for
Phase 3: Tamper-Evident Anchoring (T2 → T3 )
21: 𝐿 ← CollectRecentLogs
22: 𝑟 ← MerkleRoot(𝐿)
23: BlockchainCommit(𝑟 )
Phase 4: Audit Query and Verification
24: function Audit(ℎ𝑖 )
25:
𝐿𝑖 , 𝑃𝑖 ← RetrieveLogsAndProofs(ℎ𝑖 )
26:
𝑟 ← GetOnChainCommitment
27:
𝑟ˆ ← RecomputeRoot(𝐿𝑖 , 𝑃𝑖 )
28:
if 𝑟ˆ = 𝑟 then
29:
return 𝐿𝑖
⊲ Verified trace
30:
else
31:
return TamperingDetected
32:
end if
33: end function

Dataset

Domain

Samples

Modality

CIFAR-10
ABIDE
ADHD-200

Computer vision
Clinical rs-fMRI
Clinical rs-fMRI

60,000
871
582

RGB images
fMRI-derived graphs
fMRI-derived graphs

FG-Trac preserves predictive performance while enabling verifiable,
sample-level traceability.
To examine FG-Trac under heterogeneous workflow demands,
we instantiate it in two contrasting machine learning pipelines:
a conventional convolutional neural network (CNN) trained on a
benchmark vision dataset for controlled instrumentation validation,
and a multimodal graph-learning architecture applied to real-world
clinical data. These complementary settings enable us to assess both
the general applicability of FG-Trac’s instrumentation and its relevance in high-stakes settings where traceability and accountability
are crucial.

4.1

Experimental Setup

Datasets. We evaluate FG-Trac on three publicly available datasets
spanning computer vision and clinical neuroimaging domains, summarised in Table 1.
• CIFAR-10 [27] consists of 60,000 natural RGB images of size
32×32, evenly distributed across 10 object categories (e.g.,
airplane, cat, truck), with 6,000 images per class. The dataset
is widely used as a canonical benchmark due to its balanced
label distribution, compact image resolution, and absence of
privacy-sensitive content.
• ABIDE [8] (Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange) aggregates resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) data from multiple international sites and includes 871 subjects. Each subject
is represented by a 116×116 functional connectivity (FC) matrix constructed using the Automated Anatomical Labeling
(AAL) atlas, together with phenotypic attributes such as age,
gender, IQ score, and imaging site. Its multi-site heterogeneity introduces nontrivial variability, making traceability and
provenance tracking particularly relevant.
• ADHD-200 [1] contains rs-fMRI data for 582 subjects sourced
from eight research sites. Each subject is encoded as a functional connectivity matrix derived from voxelwise signals,
complemented by demographic variables including age, gender, and diagnostic metadata. Compared with ABIDE, ADHD200 exhibits higher inter-site variability and motion-related
artefacts, providing a challenging setting for evaluating trace
logs under noisy neuroimaging conditions.
Backbone models and baselines. The evaluation considers two
learning pipelines. For CIFAR-10, we adopt the standard CNN from
the PyTorch tutorial [23] as the backbone, evaluated with FG-Trac
enabled and disabled. This comparison isolates the effect of samplelevel traceability without introducing architectural changes.
For multimodal graph learning, FG-Trac is integrated into MMGTUNets [4], a representative model that jointly learns from functional connectivity matrices and phenotypic attributes. To situate
this model within the broader landscape of neuroimaging graph
learning, three established GNN methods are included as reference
points: BrainGNN [14], GATE [20], and MMGL [32]. These baselines are evaluated in their original form, while MM-GTUNets is
examined both with and without FG-Trac. All models follow the
same data preprocessing procedures, graph construction pipeline,
and cross-validation protocol to ensure comparability.
Implementation details. All implementations are in PyTorch
and run on Google Colaboratory (Runtime Version 2025.07) with
Python 3.11.13 and an NVIDIA T4 GPU. The CIFAR-10 CNN is
trained for 100 epochs with a batch size of 128 and a learning rate
of 1 × 10−3 . MM-GTUNets is trained on ABIDE and ADHD-200

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Chen et al.

Table 2: Runtime and memory usage of CNN models with
and without FG-Trac.
Model
CNN (baseline)
CNN + FG-Trac

Epoch Time (s)

RAM (MB)

Ledger (MB)

9.31 ± 0.33
9.47 ± 0.49

1655.1
1712.2

–
1199

Figure 2: Classification accuracy comparison between baseline CNN and FG-Trac-integrated CNN on CIFAR-10 after
100 epochs.

using 10-fold cross-validation with a fixed seed (911), a learning rate
of 5 × 10−4 , the Adam optimiser, and early stopping after 20 nonimproving epochs. After multimodal alignment, node features are
128-dimensional. Imaging and phenotypic subnetworks use threelayer U-Net encoders with 64 hidden channels and 128-dimensional
outputs; dropout and edge-drop ratios are set to 0.3 and 0.2, respectively, and pooling ratios are (0.5, 0.25). Graph regularisation and
other optimisation hyperparameters follow [4]. All baseline models
are trained using the identical configuration for fair comparison.
FG-Trac is evaluated using three complementary metric groups.
Model-level metrics (Accuracy, Sensitivity, Specificity, and AUC) verify that traceability does not affect predictive performance. Systemlevel metrics capture runtime and resource costs, including training
time per epoch, inference latency, peak RAM and GPU usage, and
blockchain ledger size. Trace-level metrics assess output quality by
reporting trace completeness, Merkle-root verification success, and
TracInCP-derived contribution patterns, examining whether sameclass samples exert supportive influence and cross-class samples
exert opposing influence.

4.2

Mechanism Validation on CIFAR-10

We first instantiate FG-Trac in a conventional vision setting using
the PyTorch CIFAR-10 CNN as the backbone, which consists of
three convolutional blocks followed by two fully connected layers.
This experiment serves as a controlled, privacy-neutral testbed to
validate the mechanics of the framework: whether instrumentation
leaves optimisation behaviour unchanged, whether end-to-end logging remains computationally feasible, and whether the recorded
contribution scores reflect intuitive relationships among samples.
CIFAR-10 is deliberately chosen not as a challenging benchmark,
but as a simple, fully inspectable pipeline in which traceability can
be exhaustively verified.
As a sanity check, we compare the baseline CNN with its FGTrac-instrumented counterpart after 100 epochs. The two models
achieve almost identical test accuracies (0.764 vs. 0.762), as shown
in (Figure 2). Model performance is not the primary focus of this
experiment; the goal is to demonstrate that enabling sample-level
traceability does not disrupt the training dynamics of a standard
CNN.
From a systems perspective, the overhead of full logging is modest. As summarised in Table 2, average epoch time increases from

Figure 3: Visualisation of sample-level contribution reconstructed from a queried training sample.

9.31 s to 9.47 s (less than 2%), and peak RAM rises from 1655.1 MB
to 1712.2 MB. GPU memory consumption remains essentially unchanged because all trace hooks are implemented as asynchronous
callbacks that write encrypted NDJSON records on the CPU while
reusing the model’s original forward and backward passes. After
100 epochs, the accumulated ledger reaches approximately 1.2 GB,
reflecting complete off-chain logging of all sample-level events and
the on-chain anchoring of Merkle roots. The overhead therefore
scales linearly with the number of samples and training epochs and
remains well within the capacity of commodity hardware.
We then verify the correctness and integrity of the traceability. Using only the logs produced by FG-Trac, all 60,000 CIFAR-10
samples can be retrieved together with their T0 –T3 event histories (ingestion, preprocessing, training, prediction). Recomputing
Merkle roots from the NDJSON trace files yields hashes that exactly
match the on-chain commitments for every run, indicating that no
events have been lost or modified since anchoring. In effect, a conventional CNN training script becomes auditable at the granularity
of individual data points once instrumented with FG-Trac.
Finally, we inspect the semantics of the recorded TracInCP contributions. By querying a randomly selected training example via
its pseudonymous identifier and reconstructing its influence scores
from the cached gradients, we obtain the contribution landscape
shown in Figure 3. The exemplar, labelled as deer, exhibits strongly
positive influence on other deer images (scores between +12.14 and
+8.85) and weakly negative influence on samples from unrelated
classes such as frog, cat, and horse (scores around −1.6). This pattern
is consistent with the intuition that within-class examples act as
proponents, while cross-class examples act as mild opponents along
the optimisation trajectory. Crucially, these relationships are reconstructed entirely from encrypted logs and gradient information:
raw CIFAR-10 images are accessed post hoc only for visualisation,
by matching pseudonymous identifiers against the public dataset.
Together, these results confirm that FG-Trac can be plugged into
a simple CNN pipeline to provide complete, verifiable and semantically meaningful sample-level traces with negligible impact on
training.

Fine-Grained Traceability for Transparent ML Pipelines

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Table 3: Classification performance on ABIDE and ADHD-200 datasets.
ABIDE (HC vs ASD)

Model

ADHD-200 (HC vs ADHD)

ACC

SEN

SPE

AUC

ACC

SEN

SPE

AUC

BrainGNN [14]
GATE [20]
MMGL [32]

71.30 ± 4.30
76.56 ± 2.18
76.98 ± 3.31

71.64 ± 3.97
75.54 ± 3.85
78.78 ± 5.19

70.26 ± 6.29
72.63 ± 2.30
74.61 ± 2.92

72.73 ± 4.29
74.06 ± 3.69
80.33 ± 2.33

68.47 ± 5.53
71.01 ± 3.37
74.41 ± 3.84

65.36 ± 2.34
69.29 ± 2.17
77.05 ± 6.62

68.93 ± 3.67
74.85 ± 4.81
76.14 ± 3.82

73.41 ± 2.07
70.36 ± 3.16
77.21 ± 4.69

MM-GTUNets [4]
MM-GTUNets + FG-Trac

82.00 ± 0.20
82.00 ± 0.30

84.40 ± 0.30
85.40 ± 0.30

79.10 ± 1.10
78.00 ± 1.00

88.70 ± 0.30
88.70 ± 0.40

82.40 ± 0.60
82.70 ± 0.60

89.60 ± 1.00
91.80 ± 0.70

78.30 ± 0.90
77.20 ± 0.80

91.00 ± 0.80
91.20 ± 0.70

Table 4: Runtime of MM-GTUNets with and without FG-Trac
(time in seconds).
Model

Trace

MM-GTUNets
MM-GTUNets + FG-Trac

×
✓

ABIDE
Epoch Inference
0.5293
0.2353
1.3125
0.2366

ADHD-200
Epoch Inference
0.2846
0.1132
0.8330
0.1132

Table 5: Resource usage of MM-GTUNets with and without
FG-Trac (memory in MB).
Model

Trace

MM-GTUNets
MM-GTUNets + FG-Trac

×
✓

RAM
1587.39
1715.54

ABIDE
VRAM
4117.91
4114.78

Ledger
–
1072.17

RAM
1584.91
1712.23

ADHD-200
VRAM Ledger
1874.80
–
1875.10 478.76

This result supports the orthogonality of trace recording to the
learning objective and confirms that FG-Trac operates transparently
within the training workflow without altering predictive behaviour.

4.3

Multimodal Graph Learning in a High-Risk
Domain

We next apply FG-Trac to a more demanding and clinically sensitive setting: multimodal graph-based prediction of mental health
disorders on ABIDE and ADHD-200. In contrast to the CIFAR-10
experiment, this scenario involves heterogeneous neuroimaging
and phenotypic modalities, graph construction over subject populations, attention-based fusion, and stricter privacy requirements.
It therefore provides a realistic test of whether FG-Trac remains
model-agnostic and operationally viable when deployed in highrisk machine learning pipelines.
We integrate FG-Trac into MM-GTUNets, a multimodal graph
transformer that jointly models functional connectivity matrices
and demographic attributes [4]. Table 3 reports classification performance on ABIDE and ADHD-200 for three GNN baselines (BrainGNN,
GATE, MMGL), MM-GTUNets without traceability, and MM-GTUNets
with FG-Trac enabled. On both datasets, MM-GTUNets substantially outperform the baselines, and adding FG-Trac preserves this
advantage: ACC and AUC remain essentially unchanged, and differences in SEN and SPE remain within 1 standard deviation. In some
cases, the traceable model even exhibits slightly higher sensitivity
(e.g., 91.8% vs. 89.6% on ADHD-200), while specificity varies only
marginally. These results support the claim that FG-Trac can be
overlaid on a state-of-the-art multimodal GNN without degrading
diagnostic performance.

Runtime and resource statistics are summarised in Tables 4 and 5.
On ABIDE, average epoch time increases from 0.5293 s to 1.3125 s (a
factor of 2.48), and on ADHD-200 from 0.2846 s to 0.8330 s (2.93×),
reflecting the cost of per-batch trace logging and checkpointed
gradient caching for TracInCP on top of graph message passing
and transformer layers. Importantly, inference latency is essentially
unchanged (0.2353 s vs. 0.2366 s on ABIDE; 0.11316 s vs. 0.11320 s on
ADHD-200), because prediction reuses the original forward path
and does not emit logs or compute influence scores. Peak RAM
usage increases by about 8% due to encrypted NDJSON serialisation and Merkle-tree construction, whereas peak GPU memory
remains almost identical, confirming that logging is handled offGPU. The resulting blockchain-backed ledgers occupy around 1.1
GB for ABIDE and 0.48 GB for ADHD-200, scaling linearly with
the number of subjects and training events. Overall, the cost of
enabling full sample-level traceability in these multimodal graph
pipelines is moderate and confined to the training phase, which
can be scheduled offline in clinical workflows.
As in the CNN setting, we verify that FG-Trac provides complete
and tamper-evident traces. For every subject in ABIDE and ADHD200, the framework reconstructs the full lifecycle from data registration and split assignment (T0 –T1 ), through multimodal graph
construction and training interactions (T1 –T2 ), to model-versioned
predictions (T2 –T3 ). Recomputed Merkle roots over all NDJSON
logs match the on-chain commitments with no discrepancies, indicating that the trace ledger offers the same cryptographic integrity
guarantees in a high-risk medical context as it does in the simple
CIFAR-10 pipeline.
FG-Trac also enables contribution tracking in multimodal GNN
pipelines without exposing raw clinical data. Using TracInCP, the
framework computes per-sample influence statistics at selected
checkpoints. It allows auditors to reconstruct these values on demand, confirming whether and how individual subjects participated
in the optimisation process. In this high-privacy setting, we intentionally avoid interpreting contribution polarity with respect to
diagnostic labels; FG-Trac provides mechanistic, auditable influence
traces, rather than semantic explanations of clinical patterns.

4.4

User-Level Auditing: End-to-End
Traceability in Practice

FG-Trac enables a new interaction modality: sample-level auditing,
where users can verify, through cryptographic evidence, whether
and how their data contributed to a trained model. Figure 4 shows
the user-facing audit interface generated by FG-Trac, which exposes
verified sample-level traces for authorised queries.

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Chen et al.

We illustrate this capability with a participant from ADHD-200,
identified only by a pseudonymous hash hashid (𝑢). Upon submitting this identifier to FG-Trac’s Query and Verification Module, the
system reconstructs three verifiable components of the participant’s
audit trail:
(1) Participation Timeline. The framework discloses the subject’s
lifecycle within the machine learning pipeline, including the assigned role (train/validation/test), timestamps of traceable events,
and the specific training epoch in which the record was last used.
Unlike aggregate provenance logs, the audit interface exposes concrete operational evidence, not merely that the dataset was used,
but when and how this individual was involved in the workflow.
(2) Modality Usage. For multimodal GNNs, FG-Trac reveals the
attention weights allocated to imaging and phenotypic modalities
when processing this subject’s record. In the selected fold, the
system reports an imaging-to-phenotype attention ratio of 0.53:0.47,
indicating that both modalities contributed meaningfully to the
final representation. This modality-level transparency would be
inaccessible without trace hooks that capture operational signals
during model execution.
(3) Contribution Summary. FG-Trac provides a signed influence
profile derived from TracInCP. In this case, the subject exerts a
positive influence on 22 peers and a negative impact on 36, yielding
a net influence score (7486.968 in this run) aggregated over signed
contributions. The top positively affected identifiers correspond to
subjects within the same diagnostic group, reflecting clinically consistent behaviour. Importantly, each influence entry is accompanied
by a Merkle proof, enabling independent verification against the
on-chain commitment without exposing raw neuroimaging data.
This case study illustrates a capability absent from existing transparency mechanisms: individuals can trace their personal contribution to a model’s behaviour and cryptographically verify that
system logs have not been altered. FG-Trac provides an actionable
auditing interface suitable for high-risk machine learning deployments where users, regulators, or organisations require verifiable
guarantees of data usage.
Across both simple and high-risk pipelines, FG-Trac establishes
verifiable, sample-level traceability with minimal perturbation to
model behaviour. These results confirm that the framework is not
tied to a particular model architecture, modality, or domain, and
can serve as an operational transparency layer for modern machine
learning systems.

5

Conclusion

This paper introduced FG-Trac, a model-agnostic framework for
verifiable, sample-level traceability in machine learning pipelines.
Rather than treating transparency as post-hoc documentation or
interpretive analysis, FG-Trac instruments pipeline execution to
record how individual data samples are processed and propagated
across preprocessing, training, and prediction stages, anchoring
these records to tamper-evident cryptographic commitments. By
integrating checkpoint-resolved influence estimation with Merklebased logging, FG-Trac enables independently verifiable audit trails
without modifying model architectures or training objectives. Experiments on a conventional convolutional neural network and a

Figure 4: User query interface automatically generated from
the FG-Trac auditing module for sample-level traceability

multimodal graph neural network in clinical settings show that
FG-Trac preserves predictive performance with practical and scalable overhead, demonstrating that fine-grained traceability can be
embedded into modern machine learning workflows.
By transforming data-usage claims into verifiable operational
evidence, FG-Trac provides a concrete auditing interface for highrisk machine learning deployments that require oversight, compliance, and post-hoc verification. FG-Trac assumes that pipeline
execution can be instrumented as designed and does not address
adversarial operators who intentionally bypass or suppress logging
before commitment. Addressing such threats will require tighter
integration with trusted execution environments, secure training
infrastructures, or hardware-backed attestations. Future work will
extend FG-Trac to distributed and federated pipelines and explore
integration with policy-driven governance mechanisms, further
strengthening operational accountability in complex Web and AI
ecosystems.

References
[1] Pierre Bellec, Carlton Chu, François Chouinard-Decorte, Yassine Benhajali,
Daniel S. Margulies, and R. Cameron Craddock. 2017. The Neuro Bureau ADHD200 Preprocessed repository. NeuroImage 144 (2017), 275–286.
[2] Ikram Boukharouba, Florence Sèdes, Christophe Bortolaso, and Florent Mouysset.
2023. From User Activity Traces to Navigation Graph for Software Enhancement:
An Application of Graph Neural Network (GNN) on a Real-World Non-Attributed
Graph. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International Conference on Information
and Knowledge Management (CIKM ’23). 5236–5237. doi:10.1145/3583780.3615998
[3] Jiahong Cai, Wei Liang, Xiong Li, Kuanching Li, Zhenwen Gui, and Muhammad Khurram Khan. 2023. GTxChain: A Secure IoT Smart Blockchain Architecture Based on Graph Neural Network. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 10, 24
(2023), 21502–21514. doi:10.1109/JIOT.2023.3296469

Fine-Grained Traceability for Transparent ML Pipelines

[4] Luhui Cai, Weiming Zeng, Hongyu Chen, Hua Zhang, Yueyang Li, Yu Feng,
Hongjie Yan, Lingbin Bian, Wai Ting Siok, and Nizhuan Wang. 2025. MMGTUNets: Unified Multi-Modal Graph Deep Learning for Brain Disorders Prediction. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 44, 9 (2025), 3705–3716.
[5] Giuseppe Casalicchio, Jakob Bossek, Michel Lang, Dominik Kirchhoff, Pascal
Kerschke, Benjamin Hofner, Heidi Seibold, Joaquin Vanschoren, and Bernd Bischl.
2019. OpenML: An R package to connect to the machine learning platform
OpenML. Computational Statistics 34, 3 (2019), 977–991.
[6] Bhanu Chander, Chinju John, Lekha Warrier, and Kumaravelan Gopalakrishnan. 2025. Toward trustworthy artificial intelligence (TAI) in the context of
explainability and robustness. Comput. Surveys 57, 6 (2025), 1–49.
[7] Andrew Chen, Andy Chow, Aaron Davidson, Arjun DCunha, Ali Ghodsi, Sue Ann
Hong, Andy Konwinski, Clemens Mewald, Siddharth Murching, Tomas Nykodym,
et al. 2020. Developments in mlflow: A system to accelerate the machine learning
lifecycle. In Proceedings of the fourth international workshop on data management
for end-to-end machine learning. 1–4.
[8] Adriana Di Martino, Chao-Gan Yan, Qingyang Li, Erin Denio, Francisco X Castellanos, Kaat Alaerts, Jeffrey S Anderson, Michal Assaf, Susan Y Bookheimer,
Mirella Dapretto, et al. 2014. The autism brain imaging data exchange: towards
a large-scale evaluation of the intrinsic brain architecture in autism. Molecular
psychiatry 19, 6 (2014), 659–667.
[9] Stefan Grafberger, Paul Groth, and Sebastian Schelter. 2023. Provenance tracking
for end-to-end machine learning pipelines. In Companion Proceedings of the ACM
Web Conference 2023. 1512–1512.
[10] Zonghao Huang, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, and Michael K Reiter. 2025. InstanceLevel Data-Use Auditing of Visual ML Models. ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:2503.22413
(2025).
[11] Isabelle Hupont, David Fernández-Llorca, Sandra Baldassarri, and Emilia Gómez.
2024. Use case cards: a use case reporting framework inspired by the European
AI Act. Ethics and Information Technology 26, 2 (2024), 19.
[12] Ruoxi Jia, David Dao, Boxin Wang, Frances Ann Hubis, Nick Hynes, Nezihe Merve
Gürel, Bo Li, Ce Zhang, Dawn Song, and Costas J Spanos. 2019. Towards efficient
data valuation based on the shapley value. In The 22nd International Conference
on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. PMLR, 1167–1176.
[13] Pang Wei Koh and Percy Liang. 2017. Understanding black-box predictions
via influence functions. In International Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR,
1885–1894.
[14] Xiaoxiao Li, Yuan Zhou, Nicha Dvornek, Muhan Zhang, Siyuan Gao, Juntang
Zhuang, Dustin Scheinost, Lawrence H. Staib, Pamela Ventola, and James S.
Duncan. 2021. BrainGNN: Interpretable Brain Graph Neural Network for fMRI
Analysis. Medical Image Analysis 74 (2021), 102233.
[15] Zhiyuan Li and Enhan He. 2023. Graph neural network-based bitcoin transaction
tracking model. IEEE Access 11 (2023), 62109–62120.
[16] Wei Liu, Peng Gao, Haotian Zhang, Ke Li, Weiyong Yang, Xingshen Wei, and Jiwu
Shu. 2025. Trace2Vec: Detecting complex multi-step attacks with explainable
graph neural network. Pattern Recognition (2025), 111363.
[17] Margaret Mitchell, Simone Wu, Andrew Zaldivar, Parker Barnes, Lucy Vasserman,
Ben Hutchinson, Elena Spitzer, Inioluwa Deborah Raji, and Timnit Gebru. 2019.
Model cards for model reporting. In Proceedings of the conference on fairness,
accountability, and transparency. 220–229.
[18] Marçal Mora-Cantallops, Salvador Sánchez-Alonso, Elena García-Barriocanal,
and Miguel-Angel Sicilia. 2021. Traceability for trustworthy AI: a review of
models and tools. Big Data and Cognitive Computing 5, 2 (2021), 20.
[19] Xin Mu, Ming Pang, and Feida Zhu. 2023. Data provenance via differential
auditing. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 36, 10 (2023),
5066–5079.
[20] Liang Peng, Nan Wang, Jie Xu, Xiaofeng Zhu, and Xiaoxiao Li. 2023. GATE: Graph
CCA for Temporal Self-Supervised Learning for Label-Efficient fMRI Analysis.
IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 42, 2 (2023), 391–402.
[21] Garima Pruthi, Frederick Liu, Satyen Kale, and Mukund Sundararajan. 2020.
Estimating training data influence by tracing gradient descent. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 33 (2020), 19920–19930.
[22] Mahima Pushkarna, Andrew Zaldivar, and Oddur Kjartansson. 2022. Data cards:
Purposeful and transparent dataset documentation for responsible ai. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency.
1776–1826.
[23] PyTorch Team. 2024. Training a classifier. https://pytorch.org/tutorials/beginner/
blitz/cifar10_tutorial.html. Accessed: 2025-10-09.
[24] Marius Schlegel and Kai-Uwe Sattler. 2025. Capturing end-to-end provenance
for machine learning pipelines. Information Systems 132 (2025), 102495.

WWW ’26, April 13–17, 2026, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

[25] Renan Souza, Amal Gueroudji, Stephen DeWitt, Daniel Rosendo, Tirthankar
Ghosal, Robert Ross, Prasanna Balaprakash, and Rafael Ferreira Da Silva. 2025.
PROV-AGENT: Unified provenance for tracking AI agent interactions in agentic
workflows. In 2025 IEEE International Conference on eScience (eScience). 467–473.
[26] Marcin Spoczynski, Marcela S Melara, and Sebastian Szyller. 2025. Atlas: A framework for ml lifecycle provenance & transparency. ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:2502.19567
(2025).
[27] Rupesh K Srivastava, Klaus Greff, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 2015. Training Very
Deep Networks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Vol. 28.
[28] Yi Sui, Ga Wu, and Scott Sanner. 2021. Representer point selection via local
jacobian expansion for post-hoc classifier explanation of deep neural networks
and ensemble models. Advances in neural information processing systems 34
(2021), 23347–23358.
[29] Jacopo Tagliabue, Ville Tuulos, Ciro Greco, and Valay Dave. 2021. DAG Card is
the new Model Card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.13601 (2021).
[30] Manasi Vartak, Harihar Subramanyam, Wei-En Lee, Srinidhi Viswanathan,
Saadiyah Husnoo, Samuel Madden, and Matei Zaharia. 2016. ModelDB: a system
for machine learning model management. In Proceedings of the Workshop on
Human-In-the-Loop Data Analytics. 1–3.
[31] Fabio Yáñez-Romero, Andrés Montoyo, Armando Suárez, Yoan Gutiérrez, and
Ruslan Mitkov. 2025. From Text to Graph: Leveraging Graph Neural Networks
for Enhanced Explainability in NLP. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.02064 (2025).
[32] Shuai Zheng, Zhenfeng Zhu, Zhizhe Liu, Zhenyu Guo, Yang Liu, Yuchen Yang,
and Yao Zhao. 2022. Multi-Modal Graph Learning for Disease Prediction. IEEE
Transactions on Medical Imaging 41, 9 (2022), 2207–2216.

A

Checkpoint Selection and Gradient
Extraction

FG-Trac computes sample-level contribution scores using a checkpointed variant of TracInCP, which requires access to gradients
at selected optimisation states. This appendix describes the checkpoint selection strategy and the minimal gradient extraction used
in our experiments.
Checkpoint Selection. Rather than storing gradients at every training step, FG-Trac monitors validation loss and selects a small set
of checkpoints C corresponding to substantial decreases beyond
random performance. These checkpoints capture meaningful optimisation progress while avoiding early noisy gradients and late
flat loss regions. In all experiments, we use |C| = 3, which provides a practical trade-off between computational overhead and
interpretability.
Gradient Extraction. At each checkpoint 𝑐 ∈ C, FG-Trac caches
the gradient of the task loss with respect to the final prediction
layer parameters:
∇𝜃 ℓ (𝜃𝑐 , 𝑠)

∀𝑠 ∈ train set.

Restricting extraction to the final layer (as in TracInCP [21]) reduces
storage and runtime costs while retaining a practical signal of how
samples support or oppose downstream predictions. These cached
gradients are reused to compute signed influence scores:
∑︁
𝐼 CP (𝑠 𝑗 →𝑠𝑖 ) =
∇𝜃 ℓ (𝜃𝑐 , 𝑠𝑖 )⊤ ∇𝜃 ℓ (𝜃𝑐 , 𝑠 𝑗 ).
𝑐∈C

This enables reconstruction of influence traces aligned with the
optimisation trajectory without replaying training or accessing
intermediate activations.

