Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Andrei I. Muresanu 1 2 Anvith Thudi 3 2 Michael R. Zhang 3 2 Nicolas Papernot 3 2

arXiv:2402.00751v2 [cs.LG] 29 Sep 2025

Abstract

model (distribution) the learning algorithm would produce
if trained without a set of datapoints.

Modern machine learning models are expensive
to train, and there is a growing concern about
the challenge of retroactively removing specific
training data. Achieving exact unlearning in
deep learning pipelines—producing models as
if certain data had never been included in training—remains an open problem. In this paper, we
revisit exact unlearning in deep learning and show
that for large language models (LLMs) we can
efficiently exactly unlearn “fine-tuning data” (the
data used to adapt a pre-trained model). This follows from two observations. First, we can use
in-context learning to adapt the LLM to the finetuning dataset instead of SGD based algorithms.
Second, we show that accurate in-context learning
can be done with quantized k-means, which allows for effectively constant time unlearning operations. Our evaluation shows that this unlearning
recipe has similar performance to fine-tuning alternatives, but vastly reduces the unlearning costs.
Our study also highlights the need for new measures of unlearning cost when adapting the learning algorithm to have faster unlearn operations.

Efficient exact unlearning for deep learning remains an open
problem. Advances in exact unlearning have come from
identifying cheap operations to simulate what changing the
dataset does to learning. This has been possible for classical
machine learning algorithms (Cao & Yang, 2015) (Brophy &
Lowd, 2021), such as clustering (Ginart et al., 2019). However, simulating the change caused by removing a datapoint
from an SGD training run with a neural network (deep learning) has proven difficult, with current approaches still requiring cost on the order of training the original model (Bourtoule et al., 2021).
Approximate unlearning has been proposed as an alternative
to exact learning and aims to lower unlearning costs by approximating the distribution of models trained without the
desired datapoints. However, there is currently no consensus on evaluation metrics, making comparison and utility
difficult to evaluate (Thudi et al., 2022a; Hayes et al., 2025)
In this paper, we show that exact unlearning can be efficient
for “fine-tuning” a pre-trained large language model (LLM),
i.e., learning given access to an LLM. The past literature
on exact unlearning had not considered learning algorithms
that leverage pre-trained models. However, this has become
a recent trend in private machine learning (Yu et al., 2021;
De et al., 2022), where fine-tuning is easier to learn privately.
We show that a similar trend also holds for exact unlearning.

1. Introduction
After a machine learning model is deployed, it may become
necessary to deploy a new model that does not use part of the
original training set. This can occur because of legislation
on the “right to be forgotten” (Mantelero, 2013) or because
of unknown data provenance (e.g., some data may have
come from untrustworthy sources). Machine unlearning
addresses this challenge of modifying a model to behave
as if it were trained without including certain datapoints.
Specifically, exact unlearning aims to produce the same

In-context learning with LLMs offers an alternative to traditional model fine-tuning that proves amenable to exact
unlearning. In-context learning works by selecting representative examples from a training dataset to guide the LLM’s
responses. While in-context learning achieves comparable performance to weight fine-tuning on many downstream
tasks (Brown et al., 2020), it presents a distinct challenge for
unlearning: we must reproduce the example selection process as if certain datapoints never existed in the fine-tuning
dataset.1 This is non-trivial because effective example selection depends on understanding the complex relationships
between datapoints.

1

Department of Computer Science, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada 2 Vector Institute, Toronto, Canada
3
Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada. Correspondence to: Andrei Muresanu <andrei.muresanu@uwaterloo.ca>.

We observe that accurate in-context learning algorithms

Proceedings of the 42 nd International Conference on Machine
Learning, Vancouver, Canada. PMLR 267, 2025. Copyright 2025
by the author(s).

1
Throughout this paper we consider the pre-training and finetuning datasets to be independent.

1

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

reduce to clustering over some feature space, which can
admit efficient exact unlearning. Specifically, a common incontext learning algorithm is to run k-means on embeddings
of training examples (Zhang et al., 2022). Instead, we propose to run quantized k-means (Ginart et al., 2019), which
admits unlearning operations independent of the dataset size.
With this, we can unlearn the fine-tuning data independent
of model and dataset size.

developing unlearning methods is when machine unlearning
can be achieved cheaper than this baseline (i.e., when having
access to T (D) makes undoing x fast). Towards this goal,
past work has shown faster machine unlearning algorithms
for a variety of classical machine learning algorithms (Cao
& Yang, 2015; Ginart et al., 2019; Brophy & Lowd, 2021).
For deep learning, known methods for exact unlearning
partition data before training such that retraining can be
computed more efficiently (Bourtoule et al., 2021), though
the cost is still on the order of training (and can come with
performance degradation). Given the difficulty of exact
unlearning, past work has considered various notions of
approximate unlearning, and methods for these (Thudi et al.,
2022a; Golatkar et al., 2020; Graves et al., 2021; Baumhauer
et al., 2022; Guo et al., 2019; Thudi et al.; Pawelczyk et al.,
2023; Yao et al., 2023; Jang et al., 2022; LLMS; Chen
& Yang, 2023). However a consensus for metrics to use
for approximate unlearning has not yet been reached. For
example, there was a Neurips competition on standardizing
metrics (Triantafillou et al., 2024). Moreover, it is not clear
if approximate notions of unlearning are suitable for some
applications of unlearning, such as legal requirements. Our
work avoids this ambiguity by focusing on exact machine
unlearning, and showing access to a pre-trained model opens
ways to learn with faster exact unlearning operations.

We introduce ERASE, an unlearning approach that combines in-context learning with quantized k-means clustering.
Our empirical evaluations explored how it compared to existing exact unlearning baselines. We conducted experiments
across Big-Bench Instruction Induction (BBII) (Zhou et al.,
2023) tasks, and compared performance of ERASE to variants of SISA (Bourtoule et al., 2021) (an optimized exact
unlearning algorithm for SGD-based learning). We found
that for most tasks we evaluated, ERASE matched or improved the accuracy of SISA, and in all cases had drastically
cheaper unlearning operations.
Finally, in studying fast exact unlearning, we make the observation that existing “faster” exact unlearning algorithms
for deep learning also increase inference cost. To the best
of our knowledge, this was not discussed in past work, and
we present an analysis of how many inference passes per
unlearning request a method can handle after which it is less
efficient than the baseline of retraining.

A separate body of literature related to unlearning (what is
considered in this paper) focuses on knowledge unlearning
where the goal is to remove an undesired “behaviour” of an
LLM as opposed to unlearning specific datapoints. We refer
the reader to Cooper et al. (2024) for a detailed comparison
of these two distinct bodies of literature.

To summarize, our contributions are:
1. Showing that for certain datasets, exact unlearning can
be efficiently achieved by using in-context learning.
2. Proposing an exact unlearning algorithm, ERASE, for
in-context learning, that has dataset and model-size
independent unlearning operation costs.

2.2. In-Context Learning
Large language models are able to learn to perform a task
and make predictions for new inputs by conditioning on
a few input-label pairs (few-shot examples), with no finetuning. This is known as in-context learning and was observed to be an emergent behaviour in GPT-3, which is a
language model with 175B parameters trained on Internetscale data (Brown et al., 2020). Subsequent work on incontext learning has studied why in-context learning works
(Min et al., 2022), including viewing the language model as
implicitly performing Bayesian inference (Xie et al., 2021).
The effectiveness of in-context learning may vary significantly with the choice of in-context demonstrations (Lu
et al., 2022). For instance, Zhang et al. (2022) highlighted
the role of diversity in the examples chosen for performance
and proposed methods such as a baseline of random sampling examples, or clustering the examples using kmean++
and including the example closest to the centroid in each
cluster. This last approach is called Auto Chain-of-Thought
(ACoT). In our work, we show the in-context learning framework has faster exact unlearning operations.

3. Identifying the trade-off between inference cost and
unlearning cost and proposing a new holistic cost metric. We use this metric to study when in-context learning provides more efficient unlearning deployments as
compared to fine-tuning alternatives such as SISA.

2. Background
2.1. Unlearning
Exact machine unlearning asks, given a training algorithm
returning some model (parameters, cluster centroids, etc.)
T : D → M and a datapoint x in the training dataset
D, to return the output of T (D \ x) given an output from
T (D) (Cao & Yang, 2015); if T is random, then this means
returning a sample according to its model distribution. The
“trivial” solution for unlearning is to retrain on D \ x, i.e.,
run T (D \ x) without using the model T (D). A goal in
2

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Figure 1. An illustration of our threat model for unlearning requests in the fine-tuning stage of training. Sensitive data can be introduced
at the fine-tuning stage of a neural network and may need to be unlearned. We assume this sensitive data does not overlap with the
pre-training dataset, meaning no change to the pre-trained model is needed to unlearn. In particular, while unlearning pre-training data
efficiently is an open problem, we show unlearning in this second stage can have performative and efficient exact unlearning methods.
Model trainers may consider moving data that may need to be unlearnt to the fine-tuning stage for efficient unlearning.

3. Taxonomy: Exact Unlearning Methods for
Fine-Tuning LLMs

constructs an ensemble of n models trained on disjoint
equal sized partitions of the dataset D (effectively trainth
ing each model for 1/n the cost of the original model),
called sharding. The second stage of SISA is slicing, which
limits a data point to being used in a specific interval of
training, e.g., the first 3 epochs. However, as seen in Figure 4, our models converge after one epoch of SISA finetuning. Hence, in this paper, we assume each model trains
on a data point only once and do not further use SISA
slicing. To unlearn with SISA, only one of the shorter
training runs needs to be redone (which had the datapoint
to unlearn), and in expectation half of that training run
needs to be redone, giving an asymptotic unlearning rate
of O( n1 × cost to train one model fully on D). This gives a
1/n factor improvement over retraining naively, but it is
known that by increasing n one decreases the performance
of the ensemble model returned by SISA (Bourtoule et al.,
2021): there is a limit to how large n can be. Intuitively,
each of the models sees less and less data as n grows, eventually giving an ensemble of noisy predictions.

Chowdhury et al. (2025) is the only previous work we are
aware of studying unlearning in the fine-tuning stage (i.e.,
task adaptation stage) of LLMs. However, their approach
does not constitute exact unlearning; see Appendix F for
details. Despite this, we note that various retraining-based
approaches to exactly unlearn are already applicable. We
now describe existing methods to exactly unlearn in the
task adaptation stage, noting these can be classified along
what the task adaptation learning algorithm is (that they are
unlearning for). In describing these baseline methods, we
focus on contrasting unlearning and inference cost.
Measuring Cost We follow the online model of Ginart
et al. (2019) for unlearning and cost. We consider a stream
of unlearning requests x1 , · · · , xi . For each request we must
produce the output of T (the training algorithm) if it was just
given D\{x1 }, D\{x1 , x2 }, · · · D\{x1 , · · · , xi } where D
was the training set. We measure unlearning cost as the average cost over a uniformly sampled i.i.d stream of unlearning
requests from the training dataset. When unlearning one
point, the unlearning cost is the expected cost to unlearn a
point when uniformly sampling from the dataset. We note
that requests may not always be uniformly sampled (Gupta
et al., 2021), and that manipulation to the order of datapoints
can lead to increased compute costs (Shumailov et al., 2021),
but do not consider these adversarial settings in this paper.

While the unlearning operation cost decreases with n, the
inference cost for n-SISA grows with n. The inference
cost is O(n ∗ f (t)) where t is the number of tokens in the
inference question and f represents the cost of inference
per token for one model. For a Transformer with a constant
attention window (as in our experiments), the cost is O(n ∗
t2 ) and we set f (t) = O(t2 ) for the rest of the paper.
3.2. In-context Learning
As an alternative to parameter fine-tuning for task adaptation, in-context learning algorithms output a set of k
examples from the fine-tuning dataset D which are then
prepended to the input given to an LLM. In-context learning

3.1. Parameter Fine-tuning
The standard exact unlearning approach for fine-tuning with
SGD-based algorithms is Sharded, Isolated, Sliced, and Aggregated training (SISA) (Bourtoule et al., 2021). n-SISA
3

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Algorithm 1 In-context Learning with ERASE
Require: A set of training examples D, the desired number
of in-context examples k, and quantization parameter ϵ
(i) (i)
(i)
Ensure: Examples q (i) = [q1 , q2 , . . . qk ] for in-context
learning

makes no modifications to the parameters, and the only dependence on the dataset D is the set of examples to prepend.
Hence, to unlearn in-context learning, we need to (re)sample
examples from the distribution of examples the in-context
learning algorithm would output if given just D \ {x∗ }.
As no past work has proposed unlearning methods for incontext learning, we overview past in-context learning algorithms and the cost of naively retraining for unlearning.

1: for each example q in D do
2:
Encode q with feature extractor e.g., Sentence-BERT
3: end for
4: Cluster all the encoded example representations into

A baseline in-context learning method is to randomly sample in-context examples (Zhang et al., 2022) from the task
adaptation dataset. Hence the distribution of samples for
unlearning x∗ will just be the distribution (sampled without replacement) of k uniform samples from D \ x∗ . We
can do this cheaply by rejection sampling. We resample
once from D \ {x1 , · · · , xk } to replace x∗ if it was sampled as an in-context examples (x∗ ∈ {x1 , · · · , xk }), and
do nothing if x∗ was not sampled (as the conditional that
x∗ ̸∈ x1 , · · · , xk is the same for both D and D \ x∗ ). Hence
this gives a constant O(1) unlearning cost per example, giving O(m) for unlearning m examples.

k clusters using quantized k-means with quantization
parameter ϵ
5: for each cluster i = 1, . . . , k do
(i) (i)
6:
Sort examples q (i) = [q1 , q2 , . . .] in the ascending order of the ℓ2 distance to the quantized cluster
centroid
7: end for
(i)
8: Return q1 for i = 1, . . . , k

run a forward pass over k of them alongside the original test
example of t tokens. This is in contrast with n-SISA which
only scaled as O(n × t2 ), and note s is typically longer than
the normal input (see example format in Section 5.1).

For certain tasks, a more effective in-context learning algorithm is Auto Chain-of-Thought (Zhang et al., 2022)
(ACoT), which takes embeddings of the examples in D
and produces k clusters from them using k-means++. ACoT
then picks the example from each cluster that is closest to
the centroid. This is often combined with prompting the
model for an explanation for its response, but we ignore this
step for this paper (and note this does not need changing for
unlearning). Hence, ACoT is effectively k-means++ on the
in-context examples, and unlearning would require producing the cluster centroids k-means++ would return if run on
D \ {x∗ }. We are unaware of efficient unlearning methods
for generic k-means++, and hence consider naively retraining as the unlearning method. Note running k-means++
has a cost O(|D|d) when fixing the number of iterations,
where d is the dimension of the embedded in-context examples. Hence, assuming negligible change to the dataset size
over m unlearning requests, we have the unlearning cost for
ACoT over m unlearning requests is O(m|D|d). We also
highlight that simply resampling the removed in-context example from the k-means++ centroid clusters is not sufficient
for exact unlearning because the selection of the removed
example is not independent to the rest of the training set.
Therefore, retraining (rerunning the clustering algorithm) or
an unlearnable alternative to k-means++ is required.

To summarize these different costs, we present the different
unlearning operation and inference costs in Table 1 (which
includes the in-context learning algorithm we will propose),
where we now see a spectrum of increasingly more efficient unlearning algorithms: no model dependence for all
in-context learning methods and furthermore no dataset dependence with random sampling and our algorithm. At the
same time, we see inference costs get higher as we make
unlearning operations more efficient.

4. Methodology
Given the current takeaways from the brief taxonomy provided in Section 3, we now proceed to propose a new algorithm to fill a gap in unlearning operation efficiency. Furthermore, given the inverse trends observed between inference
cost and unlearning cost, we propose a new holistic measure of unlearning costs to capture how frequent unlearning
requests must be for an algorithm to be more efficient: this
being particularly useful to compare unlearning cost when
changing the learning algorithm.

These in-context learning methods have unlearning operation costs independent of model size, in contrast to SISA;
however ACoT’s unlearning operation scales with dataset
size. For all in-context learning methods, the prepending of
k in-context examples increases the cost to run inference.
The inference cost is O(t2 + k × s), where s is the average
number of tokens in an in-context example, and one has to

4.1. ERASE : A New In-context Learning Method
Designed for Unlearning
The discussion in Section 3.2 reveals a gap for an in-context
learning algorithm that is as accurate as ACoT, but with
unlearning operation costs independent to the dataset size.
We propose such an algorithm in Algorithm 1, which we call
ERASE (Efficient Removal And Selection of Examples).
4

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Cost

n-SISA

ACoT

ERASE

Random

Unlearning Op
Inference Op

O( m
n Train(D,model))
O(n × t2 )

O(m|D|d)
O(t2 + k × s)

O((m2 d5/2 /ϵ)
O(t2 + k × s)

O(m)
O(t2 + k × s)

Table 1. Asymptotic unlearning and inference costs of different exact unlearning methods at the task adaptation stage of an LLM. Costs
are presented for unlearning m data points, where D is the dataset, d is the dimension of the embeddings used for the in-context examples,
and ϵ is the quantization parameter in ERASE . Here m is assumed to be O(1) asymptotically as D grows. Here k is the number of
in-context examples, t is the number of tokens in the input question, and s is the average number of tokens in an in-context example. We
do not consider model size for inference as that does not affect relative comparisons: would introduce the same constant for all methods.

rameter ϵ which one would need to be tuned for the task.
For the tasks we evaluated on, we found a fixed value of
ϵ = 0.05 led to comparable accuracy to ACoT.

ERASE builds on past work that highlighted the role of
selecting diverse examples for accurate in-context learning (Zhang et al., 2022). ERASE takes the set of training examples D and computes the Sentence-Bert embeddings for
each q ∈ D. It then creates k clusters from the embeddings
(the desired number of in-context examples) and orders the
examples in ascending ℓ2 distance to the centroid: i.e., for
(i) (i)
each cluster i ∈ [k] returns a list q (i) = [q1 , q2 , · · · ].
ERASE then returns q1i ∀i ∈ [k], the examples closest to
each centroid. This algorithm is similar to ACoT (Zhang
et al., 2022). However, ERASE uses quantized k-means (Ginart et al., 2019) to cluster instead of k-means++.

4.2. Holistic Unlearning Costs: Towards A More
Nuanced View of Benefits to Unlearning Efficiency
As previously noted in Table 1, methods that decrease unlearning operation cost also increase inference cost. To the
best of our knowledge, the literature has not previously discussed this trade-off, and how it can make the baseline of
finetuning with 1-SISA cheaper if there are a large number
of inference queries per unlearning request. We propose
to evaluate when exactly various unlearning algorithms are
more efficient than the baseline of 1-SISA (i.e., fine-tuning
and and doing naive retraining to unlearn) This comparison is motivated by previous deployment comparisons of
in-context learning and fine-tuning (Liu et al., 2022). This
metric is stated in the following definition:

Quantized k-means allows for dataset size independent
unlearning of clusters (which is the main cost for unlearning the selection of in-context examples). The algorithm computes cluster centroids similar to k-means, but
adds an additional imbalance correction, and most importantly, quantizes the centroids to a randomly sampled ϵlattice. More formally, quantized k-means quantizes the
intermediate centroids ci → cˆi ∈ ϵ ∗ Zd + θ for some
θ ∈ U nif ([−1/2, 1/2]d ) and quantization parameter ϵ. By
making ϵ larger we make the final cluster centroids more stable to changes (would require a big shift in the un-quantized
centroid to make a shift after quantization). It was shown
that with high probability 1 − O(1/ϵ|D|) over uniformly
sampling a datapoint to unlearn (Ginart et al., 2019), removing that datapoint does not change the final clusters and
hence unlearning can be achieved by doing nothing.

Definition 4.1 (Holistic Unlearning Cost). We compute the
holistic unlearning cost for a method M with unlearning
operation cost UM and inference cost IM , as the number of
inferences per unlearning request upon which M costs the
same as 1-SISA. That is, the solution to
UM + IM ∗ C(M ) = U1-SISA + I1-SISA ∗ C(M )
where C(M ) is the number of inferences. This gives
C(M ) = (UM − U1-SISA )/(I1-SISA − IM )

In particular, the unlearning operation cost of quantized kmeans for m unlearning requests is O(m2 d5/2 /ϵ) in expectation where d is the dimension of the embedding vectors, as
stated in Theorem 4.1 in Ginart et al. (2019). The proof follows by the previously mentioned bound on the probability
a deletion request changes the centroids (which introduces
the 1/(ϵ|D|) dependence), and further noting the cost to
check this stability for a given datapoint is independent of
the dataset size. Finally, the (1/|D|) probability of having
to retrain cancels with the |D| factor involved in retraining
from scratch, giving the stated dataset independent cost for
the unlearning operations.

5. Experiments
We now empirically explore the benefits of unlearning given
by in-context learning, compared to fine-tuning. First, we
explore the test accuracy of our method ERASE compared
to other in-context learning methods, and find it performs on
par with ACoT (but recall has dataset-independent unlearning costs). We hence take ERASE to represent in-context
learning and compare it to the unlearning baseline for task
adaptation of fine-tuning with SISA (Bourtoule et al., 2021).
We find it has comparable test accuracy across many tasks,
and by carefully picking the number of in-context examples,
can give significant benefits to holistic unlearning costs (i.e.,

However, quantized k-means introduced a quantization pa-

5

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Method

WinoWhy

Timedial

Sports Understanding

Logical Fallacy Detection

4-SISA
2-shot
3-shot
4-shot

1.4 × 103
2.5 × 103
1.7 × 103
1.2 × 103

0.2 × 102
0.4 × 102
0.3 × 102
0.2 × 102

2.7 × 103
5.2 × 103
3.4 × 103
2.6 × 103

1.3 × 103
2.2 × 103
1.5 × 103
1.1 × 103

Table 2. Number of inferences per unlearning request to be as expensive as 1-SISA: higher is better. These values are computed using
the inference and unlearning operation costs for the methods reported in Tables 3 and 4 (Appendix B) respectively. We see that using 4
in-context examples is more expensive than 0-shot 4-SISA, as it can handle fewer inferences per unlearning request. This is despite it
having more efficient unlearning operations. Nevertheless, in-context learning with 2-shot is still better for holistic unlearning costs than
parameter finetuning (with a factor of improvement of ≈ 2 across the board) and by Figure 3 has comparable performance on the tasks.

how infrequent unlearning can be for it to be better than
1-SISA).

probabilities of answer tokens. We mask all tokens within
the example input and task setup (e.g., the tokens for “Input:”
and “Output:”), fine-tuning only on the token within the
answer string. We use a block size of 256 tokens and batch
size of 8. We use the Adam optimizer (Kingma & Ba,
2017) with β1 = 0.9, β2 = 0.98, weight decay of 0.01, and
learning rate of 1e-5. We also use 10 warm-up steps with a
linear schedule. The full list of training parameters can be
found in Table E.

In summary, ERASE performs on par with ACoT, and doing
task adaptation (i.e., “fine-tuning”) using ERASE is more
cost-effective for unlearning than SISA.
5.1. Experimental Setup
LLMs now commonly use a causal decoder architecture
(Zhao et al., 2023). Within this architecture class, we observe similar performance across pre-training procedures.
Therefore, we use the popular LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023)
as a representative base model within all experiments. We
evaluated all methods on a suite of 15 tasks. All experiments
were run on a single node containing four A40 Nvidia GPUs.

Hyperparameter Selection We found that the learning
rate was the only hyperparameter with a significant impact
on final performance after fine-tuning. To tune our learning
rate, we fine-tune our model on the intent recognition dataset
for the rates: {5e-5, 1e-5, 5e-6, 1e-6, 5e-7, 1e-7} and choose
the one with the lowest test perplexity (1e-5). Finally, we try
three different number of warm-up iterations: 10, 15, and
40 steps, and find that 10 warm-up steps performed best.

Task Selection The 15 tasks we evaluate on are from BigBench (Srivastava et al., 2023) (released under the Apache
2.0 license). Big-Bench tasks are designed to be difficult
for LLMs to solve. From Big-Bench we selected tasks
to emphasize challenging scenarios and isolate in-context
learning ability. Our task selection process started with
considering only tasks from the Big-Bench Instruction Induction (BBII) (Zhou et al., 2023) subset of Big-Bench,
which are curated to be difficult and lack any instructional
content within examples. We then filter out any BBII tasks
with less than 200 examples, to ensure each task has adequate examples for fine-tuning and evaluation. We chose to
exclude the Dyck Languages task from BBII because its format is prohibitive toward log probability based evaluations.
To have a more comprehensive dataset, we supplement these
with 5 additional tasks from the broader Big-Bench dataset
which the untuned version of LLaMA solves with no higher
than a 40% normalized aggregate score. Finally, we remove
the “task prefix” from the prompts of all tasks. This step
helps isolate in-context learning ability from confounding
variables such as instruction following ability.

Prompt Formatting We describe in Appendix A how we
prompted an LLM for inference during: fine-tuning, zeroshot inference, and few-shot inference. This formatting is
relevant to how we measured inference cost.
Evaluation Setup Our evaluation of performance follows
the process outlined by the BigBench dataset (Srivastava
et al., 2023). All BigBench tasks we used are JSON tasks.
JSON tasks have two types of evaluation metrics: generative
and multiple-choice. Given an input, generative metrics require the model to generate some text. This text is then compared to a predefined correct answer with either no formatting or very little formatting. Multiple-choice metrics evaluate the model’s output on a small set of multiple-choice options. The metric then either assigns the most likely choice
as the model’s answer or looks at the difference between the
model’s output distribution and the target distribution. We
use the metric(s) recommended for the task, giving preference to using log-probability based multiple-choice metrics
because continuous evaluation metrics provide smoother
and more predictable changes in model performance (Schaeffer et al., 2023). We report the performance on each task

Fine-Tuning Setup We fine-tune all model parameters
using a pipeline based on Alpa (Zheng et al., 2022). We
use a loss mask to update gradients based only on the log
6

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Figure 2. Comparison of the normalized aggregate score on 4 bigbench tasks between random selection of in-context examples, ACoT,
and ERASE alongside dimension reduction variant of ERASE and ACoT (using UMAP). All methods are tested in the 4-shot setting. We
see that ERASE matches our outperforms ACoT on three of the four tasks, and similarly with random selection. Considering dimension
reduction for ERASE , we observed it made slight improvements but did not affect the relative improvement of ERASE over ACoT (still
better than dimension reduced ACoT on three of the four tasks).

by the model’s normalized aggregate score, which is normalized such that 0 represents random performance and 100
represents the performance of a human expert. The definition of normalized aggregate score (Srivastava et al., 2023)
is described in Appendix A

To conclude, we observe that ERASE has comparable accuracy to ACoT, despite having more efficient unlearning operations. We proceed to compare the accuracy of
ERASE against the finetuning baselines.
5.3. Few Shot ERASE is comparable to SISA variants

5.2. ERASE is comparable to Auto Chain-of-Thought

The question we now ask is: can ERASE perform as well as
the SISA variants (the baseline for fine-tuning with unlearning), and hence lead to alternative task adaptation algorithm
with efficient unlearning operations for these tasks? To do
this, we first compare the performance of ERASE with a
different number of in-context examples to SISA with a different number of shards (i.e., models used for ensembling).
Recall, increasing the number of in-context examples is
expected to increase performance of ERASE , while decreasing unlearning operation cost and increasing inference
cost. However, increasing the number of shards for SISA is
known to reduce performance (Bourtoule et al., 2021), but
also reduce the unlearning operation cost while increasing
inference cost (Bourtoule et al., 2021). The comparisons
across these ablations will later help us have a more finegrained understanding of when in-context learning has a
better holistic unlearning cost versus performance trade-off.

In this section we ask, does making in-context learning
more efficient to unlearn affect its test performance? Here
we compare ERASE to the other in-context learning algorithms described in Section 3 which were not optimized for
unlearning. In particular, we investigate how ERASE compares to ACoT when ACoT outperforms random sampling
(i.e. example selection is important), enabling dataset independent unlearning operation costs on those tasks.
We compared ERASE to ACoT and random selection of
in-context sets in Figure 2, using default parameters of 10
iterations for clustering and setting the quantization parameter for quantized k-means to ϵ = 0.05. We found that ACoT
and ERASE outperform random selection on most tasks,
i.e., the more expensive to unlearn methods perform better.
Amongst these methods, we found that ERASE outpeforms
ACoT on three out of the four tasks. Hence we conclude
that ERASE provides and alternative to ACoT.

Specifically, we consider SISA with ensembles of size 4,
2, and 1.2 In all implementations of SISA, we also do
not use slicing as we train for only a single epoch and
hence every datapoint is only used once (and thus already
implicitly sliced). For ERASE , we use upto 4 in-context
examples, and keep the same hyperparameters as in our
previous comparisons between in-context learning methods.

We further evaluated dimension reduction variants (using
UMAP) of the clustering methods to understand whether embedding dimension affects the comparison between ACoT
and ERASE . Considering the effect of dimension reduction,
we see it slightly boosts (or matches) the performance for
ERASE and ACoT. However, both ACoT and ERASE still
perform comparably across the 4 tasks after dimension reduction. We conclude that dimension reduction has minimal
relative impact on performance between ACoT and ERASE,
hence not affecting the previous claim of comparability in
accuracy between the two methods.

2

We do not test beyond 4 models per ensemble as we want each
model in the ensemble to fine-tune on at least 20 examples for all
tasks. This is as Figure 4 in Appendix A shows convergence in
normalized aggregate score only ever occurs after 20 examples,
where here we tested different sizes of ensembles.

7

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Figure 3. A comparison of the performance (measured by normalized aggregate score, defined in Section 5.1) of 2, 3, 4-shot ERASE to
1, 2, 4-SISA, and the baseline of no task adaptation for 15 bigbench tasks. We see on several tasks that ERASE performs comparably or
even better than the SISA variants; LLaMA is capable of in-context learning with ERASE on these tasks. We repeat experiments with
ERASE 10 times to estimate the standard deviation and evaluate all methods on the entire test set.

In Figure 3, we compared the test accuracy of the methods.
We see that ERASE using 3 or 4 in-context examples can be
as accurate as all the SISA variants for more than half of the
15 tasks, with 2-shot ERASE often still being as accurate
as the most efficient to unlearn SISA variants. In short,
ERASE performs comparably to SISA on many tasks.

as they are model size dependent, the model and datasetindependent unlearning costs of in-context methods are practically 0. For inference costs, we use the Flops Profiler package (Li, 2023), measuring base LLaMA to have an inference
cost of roughly 264, 996, 864×(1+context length) FLOPS
and evaluated the expected context lengths for all methods.
Given these values, we then used Definition 4.1 to compute
the holistic unlearning costs for the different methods. We
report the found number of inferences per unlearning request
after which a method is more expensive than the baseline
(1-SISA) in Table 2. Inspecting the values, We found that
the best-performing version of in-context learning (the 4shot version) costs more than the SISA variants to unlearn;
that is, they can handle fewer inferences per unlearning
request before being more expensive than the baseline. This
is despite it having a more efficient unlearning operation.

5.4. Few Shot In-context Learning is holistically more
cost efficient to unlearn than SISA
With this understanding of the predictive performance of
ERASE relative to SISA, we turn to when it is cheaper
to deploy in-context learning than SISA in the presence
of unlearning requests. Specifically, how infrequent can
unlearning requests be for each method after which they
are worse than 1-SISA in cost, and does in-context learning
allow more settings?

However, note 2 and 3-shot ERASE still performed comparably to the most efficient to unlearn SISA variants. Hence
we compared their holistic unlearning cost to 4-SISA (note
that 4-SISA is more efficient to deploy than 3 and 2-SISA by
Definition 4.1). We observed 3-shot ERASE has costs comparable to 4-SISA, and 2-shot ERASE in fact significantly
improves the holistic unlearning costs: it allows unlearning
requests to be at least almost half as infrequent as what
4-SISA allows before being as expensive as 1-SISA.

Towards answering this, we first reported the numerical cost
(measured in FLOPS) per unlearning operation and per inference for the different methods in Table 3 and Table 4 (in
Appendix B) respectively. This is reported for 4 tasks where
in-context learning performs as well as SISA, as shown in
Figure 3. In particular, we computed the expected cost per
unlearning operation for SISA by taking the flops used to
train an individual model in the ensemble and dividing by
2 (as dividing by 2 captures the expected length of training
that needs to be redone if one logs checkpoints). Compared
to the costs of SISA, which do not scale favourably to LLMs

We hence conclude that in-context learning can be more
8

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

References

favourable for deployments subject to unlearning requests
at the task adaptation phase. However, this requires picking
the number of in-context examples more carefully and our
trade-offs may not generalize to other tasks (where more
in-context examples are needed for performance).

Baumhauer, T., Schöttle, P., and Zeppelzauer, M. Machine
unlearning: Linear filtration for logit-based classifiers.
Machine Learning, 111(9):3203–3226, 2022.
Blakeney, C., Paul, M., Larsen, B. W., Owen, S., and Frankle, J. Does your data spark joy? performance gains from
domain upsampling at the end of training. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.03476, 2024.

6. Conclusion
We showed that fast exact unlearning is possible for finetuning an LLM (i.e., task adaptation). This followed by using in-context learning for fine-tuning, and noting quantized
k-means on embeddings is an accurate in-context learning
algorithm. This provided a learning plus unlearning recipe
whose unlearning operations costs were independent of both
the LLM and dataset size. This efficiency gain was true even
for a holistic unlearning cost that studied how frequent inference requests can be per unlearning request.

Bourtoule, L., Chandrasekaran, V., Choquette-Choo, C. A.,
Jia, H., Travers, A., Zhang, B., Lie, D., and Papernot,
N. Machine unlearning. In 2021 IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy (SP), pp. 141–159. IEEE, 2021.
Brophy, J. and Lowd, D. Machine unlearning for random
forests. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 1092–1104. PMLR, 2021.

We note in-context learning is not always an effective learning method, and focused our study on situations where
in-context learning is performant. For example, in-context
learning can help a model understand the format of a trivia
task, but can not significantly help a model recall more trivia.
Additionally, in-context learning is limited by the context
size and does not modify model weights. Therefore, it is
not useful for learning over large amounts of data. We leave
these ill-suited tasks, as well as an analysis of the trade-off
between fine-tuning ability and unlearning cost, as future
work.

Brown, T., Mann, B., Ryder, N., Subbiah, M., Kaplan, J. D.,
Dhariwal, P., Neelakantan, A., Shyam, P., Sastry, G.,
Askell, A., et al. Language models are few-shot learners.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:
1877–1901, 2020.
Cao, Y. and Yang, J. Towards making systems forget with
machine unlearning. In 2015 IEEE symposium on security
and privacy, pp. 463–480. IEEE, 2015.
Chen, J. and Yang, D. Unlearn what you want to forget: Efficient unlearning for llms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.20150, 2023.

Impact Statement
This paper presents work whose goal is to advance the field
of Machine Learning. There are many potential societal
consequences of our work, none which we feel must be
specifically highlighted here.

Chowdhury, S. B. R., Choromanski, K., Sehanobish, A.,
Dubey, A., and Chaturvedi, S. Towards scalable exact machine unlearning using parameter-efficient finetuning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2406.16257.

Acknowledgements
We thank Eleni Triantafillou and Jamie Hayes for helpful
comments on earlier versions of this work. We would like to
acknowledge our sponsors, who support our research with
financial and in-kind contributions: Amazon, Apple, CIFAR
through the Canada CIFAR AI Chair, DARPA through the
GARD project, Intel, Meta, NSERC through the Discovery
Grant, the Ontario Early Researcher Award, and the Sloan
Foundation. Anvith Thudi is supported by a Vanier Fellowship from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research
Council of Canada. Michael Zhang is supported by the
NSERC CGS Fellowship. Resources used in preparing this
research were provided, in part, by the Province of Ontario,
the Government of Canada through CIFAR, and companies
sponsoring the Vector Institute.

Cooper, A. F., Choquette-Choo, C. A., Bogen, M., Jagielski, M., Filippova, K., Liu, K. Z., Chouldechova, A.,
Hayes, J., Huang, Y., Mireshghallah, N., et al. Machine
unlearning doesn’t do what you think: Lessons for generative ai policy, research, and practice. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.06966, 2024.
De, S., Berrada, L., Hayes, J., Smith, S. L., and Balle, B. Unlocking high-accuracy differentially private image classification through scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.13650,
2022.
Dubey, A., Jauhri, A., Pandey, A., Kadian, A., Al-Dahle,
A., Letman, A., Mathur, A., Schelten, A., Yang, A., Fan,
A., et al. The llama 3 herd of models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.21783, 2024.
9

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Ginart, A., Guan, M., Valiant, G., and Zou, J. Y. Making ai
forget you: Data deletion in machine learning. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.

Min, S., Gururangan, S., Wallace, E., Shi, W., Hajishirzi,
H., Smith, N. A., and Zettlemoyer, L. Silo language
models: Isolating legal risk in a nonparametric datastore.
In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations.

Golatkar, A., Achille, A., and Soatto, S. Eternal sunshine of
the spotless net: Selective forgetting in deep networks. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 9304–9312, 2020.

Min, S., Lyu, X., Holtzman, A., Artetxe, M., Lewis, M.,
Hajishirzi, H., and Zettlemoyer, L. Rethinking the role of
demonstrations: What makes in-context learning work?
In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 11048–
11064, 2022.

Graves, L., Nagisetty, V., and Ganesh, V. Amnesiac machine learning. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, volume 35, pp. 11516–11524,
2021.

Pawelczyk, M., Neel, S., and Lakkaraju, H. In-context
unlearning: Language models as few shot unlearners.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.07579, 2023.

Guo, C., Goldstein, T., Hannun, A., and Van Der Maaten,
L. Certified data removal from machine learning models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.03030, 2019.

Schaeffer, R., Miranda, B., and Koyejo, S. Are emergent
abilities of large language models a mirage?, 2023.

Gupta, V., Jung, C., Neel, S., Roth, A., Sharifi-Malvajerdi,
S., and Waites, C. Adaptive machine unlearning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34:
16319–16330, 2021.

Shumailov, I., Shumaylov, Z., Kazhdan, D., Zhao, Y., Papernot, N., Erdogdu, M. A., and Anderson, R. J. Manipulating sgd with data ordering attacks. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 34:18021–18032, 2021.

Hayes, J., Shumailov, I., Triantafillou, E., Khalifa, A., and
Papernot, N. Inexact unlearning needs more careful evaluations to avoid a false sense of privacy. In 2025 IEEE
Conference on Secure and Trustworthy Machine Learning
(SaTML), pp. 497–519. IEEE, 2025.

Srivastava, A., Rastogi, A., Rao, A., and et al. Beyond
the imitation game: Quantifying and extrapolating the
capabilities of language models, 2023.

Jang, J., Yoon, D., Yang, S., Cha, S., Lee, M., Logeswaran,
L., and Seo, M. Knowledge unlearning for mitigating privacy risks in language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.01504, 2022.

Thudi, A., Shumailov, I., Boenisch, F., and Papernot, N.
From differential privacy to bounds on membership inference: Less can be more. Transactions on Machine
Learning Research.

Kingma, D. P. and Ba, J. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization, 2017.

Thudi, A., Deza, G., Chandrasekaran, V., and Papernot,
N. Unrolling sgd: Understanding factors influencing machine unlearning. In 2022 IEEE 7th European Symposium
on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), pp. 303–319. IEEE,
2022a.

Li, C. Flops profiler python package, 2023. URL https:
//pypi.org/project/flops-profiler/.
Liu, H., Tam, D., Muqeeth, M., Mohta, J., Huang, T., Bansal,
M., and Raffel, C. A. Few-shot parameter-efficient finetuning is better and cheaper than in-context learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:
1950–1965, 2022.

Thudi, A., Jia, H., Shumailov, I., and Papernot, N. On
the necessity of auditable algorithmic definitions for machine unlearning. In 31st USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 22), pp. 4007–4022, 2022b.
Thudi, A., Jia, H., Meehan, C., Shumailov, I., and Papernot,
N. Gradients look alike: Sensitivity is often overestimated
in {DP-SGD}. In 33rd USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 24), pp. 973–990, 2024.

LLMS, I. Who’s harry potter? approximate unlearn.
Lu, Y., Bartolo, M., Moore, A., Riedel, S., and Stenetorp,
P. Fantastically ordered prompts and where to find them:
Overcoming few-shot prompt order sensitivity. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pp. 8086–8098, 2022.

Touvron, H., Lavril, T., Izacard, G., Martinet, X., Lachaux,
M.-A., Lacroix, T., Rozière, B., Goyal, N., Hambro, E.,
Azhar, F., Rodriguez, A., Joulin, A., Grave, E., and Lample, G. Llama: Open and efficient foundation language
models, 2023.

Mantelero, A. The eu proposal for a general data protection
regulation and the roots of the ‘right to be forgotten’.
Computer Law & Security Review, 29(3):229–235, 2013.

Triantafillou, E., Kairouz, P., Pedregosa, F., Hayes, J.,
Kurmanji, M., Zhao, K., Dumoulin, V., Junior, J. J.,
10

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Mitliagkas, I., Wan, J., et al. Are we making progress
in unlearning? findings from the first neurips unlearning
competition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09073, 2024.
Xie, S. M., Raghunathan, A., Liang, P., and Ma, T. An
explanation of in-context learning as implicit bayesian
inference. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021.
Yao, Y., Xu, X., and Liu, Y. Large language model unlearning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10683, 2023.
Yu, D., Naik, S., Backurs, A., Gopi, S., Inan, H. A., Kamath, G., Kulkarni, J., Lee, Y. T., Manoel, A., Wutschitz,
L., et al. Differentially private fine-tuning of language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.06500, 2021.
Zhang, Z., Zhang, A., Li, M., and Smola, A. Automatic
chain of thought prompting in large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03493, 2022.
Zhao, W. X., Zhou, K., Li, J., Tang, T., Wang, X., Hou, Y.,
Min, Y., Zhang, B., Zhang, J., Dong, Z., Du, Y., Yang, C.,
Chen, Y., Chen, Z., Jiang, J., Ren, R., Li, Y., Tang, X.,
Liu, Z., Liu, P., Nie, J.-Y., and Wen, J.-R. A survey of
large language models, 2023.
Zheng, L., Li, Z., Zhang, H., Zhuang, Y., Chen, Z., Huang,
Y., Wang, Y., Xu, Y., Zhuo, D., Xing, E. P., Gonzalez,
J. E., and Stoica, I. Alpa: Automating inter- and intraoperator parallelism for distributed deep learning, 2022.
Zhou, Y., Muresanu, A. I., Han, Z., Paster, K., Pitis, S.,
Chan, H., and Ba, J. Large language models are humanlevel prompt engineers, 2023.

11

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

A. Experimental Details
Prompt Formatting Below we list how we prompted an LLM for inference during: fine-tuning, zero-shot inference, and
few-shot inference. This formatting is relevant to how we measured inference cost. For completeness, we also describe the
expected output during fine-tuning.
1. Fine-tuning Input: “[test example input]” Output: “[test example output]”
2. Zero-Shot inference Input: “[test example input]”
3. Few-Shot inference Input: “Input: [in-context example 1 input] Output: [in-context example 1 output] Input: [incontext example 2 input] Output: [in-context example 2 output] ... Input: [in-context example k input] Output:
[in-context example k output] Input: [example input]”
Normalized Aggregate Score We state the formula as defined in Srivastava et al. (2023) below, where for a given task ”raw
preferred metric” is the model’s performance using the task’s preferred evaluation metric, ”low score” is the lowest possible
score (typically random choice), and ”high score” is the highest possible score (typically expert human performance):

[normalized aggregate score]

=

[normalized preferred metric]

=

100 ×

[raw preferred metric] − [low score]
[high score] − [low score]

B. Additional Tables and Figures
Method

WinoWhy

Timedial

Sports Understanding

Logical Fallacy Detection

1-SISA
4-SISA
In-context Methods

71 × 1012
14 × 1012
≈0

70 × 1012
14 × 1012
≈0

71 × 1012
14 × 1012
≈0

70 × 1012
14 × 1012
≈0

Table 3. Unlearning operation costs of different exact unlearning methods, measured in FLOPS, for four different tasks: lower is better.
All tasks have roughly the same unlearning operation cost for a given SISA method despite having dramatically different input lengths.
This is as the examples for all the tasks fit entirely within the model’s context window. Therefore, because fine-tuning requires no token
generation, it means that all examples require only a single forward pass to compute the required fine-tuning log probabilities regardless
of length. When compared to the costs of the SISA methods, we have the unlearning costs for in-context methods are ≈ 0 given they are
model size independent; notably random in-context sets are O(1) (just the cost of resampling).

Method

WinoWhy

Timedial

Sports Understanding

Logical Fallacy Detection

1-SISA
4-SISA
2-shot
3-shot
4-shot

13.5 × 109
54.2 × 109
42.1 × 109
55.5 × 109
70.4 × 109

78.6 × 109
314.4 × 109
238.1 × 109
323.7 × 109
395.5 × 109

7.0 × 109
27.9 × 109
20.7 × 109
27.6 × 109
34.5 × 109

14.9 × 109
59.7 × 109
46.1 × 109
61.5 × 109
76.7 × 109

Table 4. Inference costs of different exact unlearning methods, measured in FLOPS, for four different tasks: lower is better. Unlike what
was seen with unlearning operation costs in Table 3, we see a variety of inference costs depending on the task. Nevertheless, comparing
costs across the SISA methods and in-context methods, we see that using 4 in-context examples has the largest cost. 3-shot in-context
learning has inference cost comparable to 4-SISA, with 2-shot being the cheapest before the baseline of 1-SISA. We calculated the FLOPS
for inference reported for inference by computing the inference cost per token for the model, the average number of tokens in an input,
and the average number of token in an in-context example for each task.

C. Discussion
Here we discuss how future work can further explore unlearning different parts of the deep learning pipeline (Section C.1), as
was found successful in this paper. We also discuss how work on the limits to holistic unlearning efficiency (as introduced in
12

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Figure 4. Performance (reported by normalized aggregate score) of SISA variants as they progress through training, measured by the
number of training examples seen. This is shown for the 15 bigbench tasks selected according to the process described in Section 5.1,
using the finetuning setup also described in Section 5.1. We find that finetuning with SISA typically converges after 80 examples, and
always required at least 20 examples to converge. Hence we use 20 examples to define a hard cut-off on how small our shards can be for
SISA. Recall normalized aggregate score reports model performance such that 0 represents random performance and 100 represents the
performance of human experts.

this paper) has implication to the more general trustworthy ML community (Section C.2). Lastly, we describe how changing
the unlearning definitions could change cost comparisons (Section C.3), and the open problem of understanding when
in-context learning is better than fine-tuning (Section C.4) which has implication to the applicability of our observations.
C.1. Towards More Fine-Grained Unlearning Threat Models
One core contribution of our work is the insight that the deep learning pipeline can be segmented, allowing for more
efficient exact unlearning in specific stages. Practically, this suggests data with potential unlearning requirements should be
allocated to stages where exact unlearning is more feasible. In this paper we split the deep learning pipeline into two stages
(pretraining and task adaptation), as illustrated in Figure 1.
However this is still a coarse-grained view of a deep learning pipeline. Many large models go through multiple stages of
refinement, intentionally using different data at each stage (Dubey et al., 2024). This can be at the pretraining stage where
more carefully curated data mixtures are introduced after training on less filtered data to improve performance. Alternatively,
in the task adaptation stage, a variety of fine-tuning techniques on different sources of data may be used before finally doing
in-context learning, in order to do task adaptation for multiple tasks.
As an example of another unlearning problem arising from these modern pipelines, many large models run a hyperparameter
selection over the mixture weights of large datasets by evaluating performance of models trained with those mixtures on
smaller benchmark data (Dubey et al., 2024; Blakeney et al., 2024). Essentially they had learnt mixture weights of ”public
data” with this benchmark data. One can imagine this benchmark data contains sensitive user data reflecting specific user
groups the model trainer is trying to improve performance for. Hence, how might one unlearn the mixture weights if some
of the users in the benchmark data revoked access to their data? Is there a preferred method for mixture finding if one would
13

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

need to unlearn?
Our research aims to inspire future investigations into various stages of modern deep learning pipelines to assess the
unlearning requirements for data at each stage and develop efficient unlearning methods. As our understanding evolves,
we may identify efficient unlearning techniques for multiple pipeline stages, allowing strategic placement of potentially
unlearnable data, e.g., in placement for retrieval based models as in (Min et al.). This approach could ultimately lead to
efficient exact unlearning solutions for deep learning by addressing unlearning challenges in specific, critical parts of the
process rather than tackling the entire pipeline simultaneously.
C.2. On Lower-Bounds to Holistic Unlearning Cost and Implications to Trustworthy Machine Learning
Our investigation into exact unlearning methods for task adaptation revealed unlearning methods that decreased the costs for
the unlearning operation often also increased the costs for inference. To quantify this trade-off, we proposed a new holistic
measure of unlearning cost: the frequency threshold of unlearning requests at which a method becomes more cost-effective
than retraining. This metric offers potential insights into the fundamental limits of exact unlearning efficiency.
Further study into this trade-off may be able to provide provable, or even empirically measured, lower-bounds on how
holistically efficient unlearning can be in certain settings while still having an accurate learning algorithm. Our experiments
suggest a possible unavoidable trade-off between inference cost and unlearning operation cost in certain machine learning
setups, although more efficient algorithms may yet be discovered. Given that our algorithms achieve near-constant unlearning
operation costs, future improvements would likely focus on reducing inference costs, which we expect can only improve by
constant factors.
Such lower bounds would have implications beyond just unlearning. In particular, a lower-bound on holistic unlearning cost
would imply a trade-off between how much data any accurate learning algorithm can be “invariant” to (i.e., can unlearn by
doing nothing) and how efficiently such invariance can be checked. This is as one can construct an unlearning algorithm
by checking if removing a training datapoint changes the final model and if not, do nothing; if significantly many points
do not affect the model and this can be checked quickly, this provides a fast unlearning operation. This algorithm would
also not increase inference cost, providing an example of a good holistic unlearning algorithm which such a lower-bound
would prevent. Hence, lower-bounds to holistic unlearning cost may be of fundamental interest to the core machine learning
community.
Moreover, a variant of the unlearning algorithm sketched above was proposed by Thudi et al. (2024), where checking
invariance was possible with a new per-instance differential privacy analysis. However, such an analysis is currently slow to
run, and a lower-bound on holisitc unlearning cost may explain the limits of how efficiently such per-instance DP analysis
can be run. Hence, such a lower-bound to holistic unlearning can be of interest to the privacy community.
Given these connections, we believe understanding the limits of holistic unlearning to be of fundamental interest to the
trustworthy machine learning community in general. Beyond any other connections, it may help illuminate why efficient
exact unlearning for deep learning has been illusive.
C.3. On Unlearning Definitions and Implications to Cost
We wish to reiterate here the distinction between exact and approximate unlearning, and the issues that are still common to
both and how this can affect claims of efficiency. Approximate unlearning attempts to emulate exact unlearning in a manner
that is sufficient for specific goals of unlearning. However, the reasons to unlearn may be several-fold in practice (legal,
performance, etc) and not amenable to any specific metric, hence difficult for approximate unlearning. Nevertheless, for the
cases where approximate unlearning is appropriate, it may be that there are similar trade-offs between inference cost and
unlearning operation cost as was found for exact unlearning in this paper, or between other sources of deployment cost.
Perhaps these trade-offs are also affected by the choice of approximate unlearning metric, giving an argument for or against
certain metrics. In short, we are not aware of work looking into the efficiency trade-off between unlearning for different
approximate unlearning metrics, and what holistic consideration (analogus to changing inference cost in exact unlearning)
would need to be made.
We also note that exact unlearning is also not immune to problems of applicability. In particular, exact unlearning can still
suffer issues of not being auditable (Thudi et al., 2022b), meaning additional requirements are potentially needed to satisfy
legal requirements. It may be that to make these unlearning methods auditable, we may find a new trade-off between various
sources of deployment costs, such as communication cost vs. offline cost for cryptographic protocols.
14

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Furthermore, exact unlearning can also still leak privacy if not done with additional privacy requirements (Gupta et al.,
2021), e.g., if an adversary gains access to the model before and after the unlearning operation for a data point they may be
able to infer what the data point to unlearn was. It may be that satisfying privacy requirements on unlearning can change the
ratios between inferences and unlearning requests we observed (for a given test accuracy), and the preference for in-context
learning. For example, privacy often comes with accuracy degradation. However, the mechanism needed to make unlearning
in-context examples private may involve less degradation to accuracy than for fine-tuning, and vice-versa.
Lastly, regardless of whether we are doing exact or approximate unlearning, note we assumed a stream of individual
independent unlearning requests, but if they were aggregated into batches, then 1-SISA unlearning operation cost does not
scale with the number of requests making it more desirable. Analogously, if the sequence of unlearning requests were not
independent, further algorithmic changes may be needed to do unlearning (Gupta et al., 2021).
To summarize, we believe careful consderation of the specific unlearning requirements can affect our observed claims of
which unlearning methods are more efficient. We hope future work considers the different settings described here, adding to
our understanding of when unlearning can be efficient.
C.4. Understanding when In-Context Learning Performs Best
Our experiments, as illustrated in Figure 3, showed that ERASE often achieves comparable accuracy to SISA. However,
this was not always the case, and we observed a large variance in the relative performance between tasks. Furthermore,
we are not aware of work that predicts when in-context learning is accurate (relative to fine-tuning) and we do not have an
explanation for our observed variance in competitiveness.
We hypothesize that this variability is largely influenced by the pre-trained model, and that different pre-trained models may
yield different results for in-context learning performance. This uncertainty has practical implications for unlearning: to
determine if in-context learning can be used effectively (for more efficient learning) without significant performance loss
compared to fine-tuning, it appears necessary to still fine-tune the model for comparison. Given that in-context learning is
now known to be important for unlearning, we believe an important open problem for the trustworthy machine learning
community is predicting when in-context learning is suitable for a task without requiring fine-tuning for comparison. Solving
this problem would significantly enhance our ability to implement efficient unlearning strategies across various tasks and
models.

D. Statistical Significance Analysis
In this section, we analyze the statistical significance of our results from Figure 2. We analyze the results individually for
each task and avoid cross-task analysis as with a sample size of 4, the analysis would not be meaningful. For our analysis,
we assume that the performance of each algorithm is normally distributed with unknown population mean and variance.
We also assume that the variance of each algorithm is independent. This assumption is based on the observation that each
algorithm’s variance is different and the intuition that some algorithms are more stable than others. We will conduct our
analysis in a pairwise fashion between the following algorithms: Random In-Context Sets (Random), ACoT, and ERASE,
which we will sometimes note as A1 , A2 , A3 . Formalizing the above, for i ∈ {1, 2, 3} we assume the performance of each
Ai is sampled from some normal distribution N (µi , σi2 ). Our Null Hypothesis is that each pair of two algorithms Ai , Aj ,
i ̸= j have equal mean performance, i.e., µi = µj . We test the Null Hypothesis using a two-sample t-test with assumed
unequal variances. Table 5 contains the results of Figure 2, and Table 6 shows the calculated p-values.

E. List of Training Parameters
A complete list of all training parameters used can be found in Table E.

F. Exact Unlearning Commentary Of Chowdhury et al.
Chowdhury et al. (2025) propose unlearning by reverting to a checkpoint that did not observe the datapoint to be unlearned.
However, this does not reproduce the model that would have been obtained had the datapoint never been included in that
slice (as the model distribution is now dependent on where the datapoint to unlearn originally appeared). Furthermore, their
method of selecting among models trained on permuted data slices deviates from the a priori distribution of models without
the datapoint, and is conceptually analogous to the forging attack described by Thudi et al. (2022b). More generally, their
15

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs
Table 5. Tabular format results from Figure 2. Each experiment (task-algorithm combination) had 32 independent trials. As described in
Figure 2, ERASE matches or outperforms ACoT on most tasks, and similarly with random selection.

Task

Algorithm

Mean

Std Dev

Disambiguation QA

Random In-Context Sets
ACoT
ERASE
UMAP + ACoT
UMAP + ERASE
Random In-Context Sets

3.59
-4.22
2.48
5.65
6.11
18.69

4.70
2.78
5.40
6.99
7.53
6.26

ACoT
ERASE
UMAP + ACoT
UMAP + ERASE

18.02
24.24
20.40
23.34

5.21
7.93
4.92
5.91

Implicatures

Random In-Context Sets
ACoT
ERASE
UMAP + ACoT
UMAP + ERASE

29.67
29.76
32.37
32.52
28.21

11.55
2.95
14.11
12.10
8.05

Intent Recognition

Random In-Context Sets
ACoT
ERASE
UMAP + ACoT
UMAP + ERASE

55.89
77.17
57.76
61.00
64.63

13.62
0.60
12.73
1.41
12.05

Fantasy Reasoning

implicit definition of exact unlearning—as any procedure that does not use a datapoint—falls into the class of algorithmic
definition issues highlighted in Thudi et al. (2022b), where such flexibility can trivialize unlearning. In contrast, our work
follows the more rigorous definition from Thudi et al. (2022b), which requires exact unlearning to be defined with respect to
a specific training and exact unlearning algorithm.

16

Fast Exact Unlearning for In-Context Learning Data for LLMs

Table 6. Pairwise p-values between algorithms (ACoT, ERASE) across tasks, testing the Null Hypothesis that µi = µj . We consider
p-value less than 0.05 statistically significant and bold them.

Task

Algorithm

ACoT

ERASE

Disambiguation QA

Random
ACoT

0.0000
–

0.384
0.0000

Fantasy Reasoning

Random
ACoT

0.6436
–

0.0029
0.0005

Implicatures

Random
ACoT

0.9695
–

0.4054
0.3133

Intent Recognition

Random
ACoT

0.0000
–

0.5728
0.0000

Table 7. List of all training parameters used. The model used is described in Touvron et al. (2023)

Parameter

Value

Trainable Parameters
Model
Learning Rate
Warm-up Steps
Adam Beta 1
Adam Beta 2
Weight Decay
Num Epochs
Eval Steps
Weight Precision
Block Size
Num Micro Batches
Operator Parallel
Pipeline Parallel

All
LLaMA 7B
1e-5
10
0.9
0.98
0.01
1
4
float 16
256
2
4
1

17

